U.S. Department of Justice
Attartte:,· Wark Pratl1:1et// Ma:,cCaRtaifl Material Prateetetl UHeer Fee. R. Cri1H. P. 6(e)

9, 2016 meeting between senior campaign officials and a Russian attorney. On June 29, Hicks
warned the President that the emails setting up the June 9 meeting were "really bad" and the story
would be "massive" when it broke , but the President told her and Kushner to "leave it alone."
Early on July 8, after Hicks told the President the New York Times was working on a story about
the June 9 meeting , the President directed her not to comment, even though Hicks said that the
President usually considered not responding to the press to be the ultimate sin. Later that day , the
President rejected Trump Jr. 's draft statement that would have acknowledged that the meeting was
with "an individual who I was told might have information helpful to the campaign ." The
President then dictated a statement to Hicks that said the meeting was about Russian adoption
(which the President had twice been told was discussed at the meeting). The statement dictated
by the President did not mention the offer of derogatory information about Clinton.
Each of these efforts by the President involved his communications team and was directed
at the press. They would amount to obstructive acts only if the President, by taking these actions ,
sought to withhold information from or mislead congressional investigators or the Special Counsel.
On May 17, 2017, the President's campaign received a document request from SSCI that clearly
covered the June 9 meeting and underlying emails , and those documents also plainly would have
been relevant to the Special Counsel's investigation.
But the evidence does not establish that the President took steps to prevent the emails or
other information about the June 9 meeting from being provided to Congress or the Special
Counsel. The series of discussions in which the President sought to limit access to the emails and
prevent their public release occurred in the context of developing a press strategy. The only
evidence .we have of the President discussing the production of documents to Congress or the
Special Counsel is the conversation on June 29, 2017, when Hicks recalled the President
acknowledging that Kushner's attorney should provide emails related to the June 9 meeting to
whomever he needed to give them to. We do not have evidence of what the President discussed
with his own lawyers at that time.
b.
Nexus to an official proceeding. As described above, by the time of the President's
attempts to prevent the public release of the emails regarding the June 9 meeting, the existence of
a grand jury investigation supervised by the Special Counsel was public knowledge, and the
President had been told that the emails were responsive to congressional inquiries. To satisfy the
nexus requirement, however, it would be necessary to show that preventing the release of the
emails to the public would have the natural and probable effect of impeding the grand jury
proceeding or congressional inquiries. As noted above , the evidence does not establish that the
President sought to prevent disclosure of the emails in those official proceedings .
c.
Intent. The evidence establishes the President ' s substantial involvement in the
communications strategy related to information about his campaign 's connections to Russia and
his desire to minimize public disclosures about those connections . The President became aware
of the emails no later than June 29, 2017, when he discussed them with Hicks and Kushner , and
he could have been aware of them as early as June 2, 2017 , when lawyers for the Trump
Organization began interviewing witnesses who participated in the June 9 meeting. The President
thereafter repeatedly rejected the advice of Hicks and other staffers to publicly release information
about the June 9 meeting . The President expressed concern that multiple people had access to the
emails and instructed Hicks that only one lawyer should deal with the matter. And the President
106

