U.S. Department of Justice
Att:orHeyWork Proelttet// Ma)" CoAtaiHMaterial Proteeteel UHelerFeel.R. Crim. P. 6(e)

been publicly announced by candidate Trump. Statement of Offense ,r,r25-26, United States v.
George Papadopoulos, No. 1: l 7-cr-182 (D.D .C. Oct. 5, 2017), Doc . 19 ("Papadopoulos Statement
of Offense").
Papadopoulos also made false statements in an effort to mm1m1ze the extent and
importance of his communications with Mifsud. For example, Papadopoulos stated that
"[Mifsud]'s a nothing," that he thought Mifsud was "just a guy talk[ing] up connections or
something," and that he believed Mifsud was "BS'ing to be completely honest with you ." In fact,
however , Papadopoulos understood Mifsud to have substantial connections to high-level Russian
government officials and that Mifsud spoke with some of those officials in Moscow before telling
Papadopoulos about the "dirt." Papadopoulos also engaged in extensive communications over a
period of months with Mifsud about foreign policy issues for the Campaign , including efforts to
arrange a "history making" meeting between the Campaign and Russian government officials. In
addition, Papadopoulos failed to inform investigators that Mifsud had introduced him to Timofeev ,
the Russian national who Papadopoulos understood to be connected to the Russian Ministry of
Foreign Affairs , despite being asked if he had met with Russian nationals or "[a]nyone with a
Russian accent" during the campaign. Papadopoulos Statement of Offense ,r,r
27-29.
Papadopoulos also falsely claimed that he met Polonskaya before he joined the Campaign,
and falsely told the FBI that he had "no" relationship at all with her. He stated that the extent of
their communications was her sending emails-"Just , 'Hi , how are you?' That's it." In truth ,
however, Papadopoulos met Polonskaya on March 24, 2016, after he had joined the Campaign; he
believed that she had connections to high-level Russian government officials and could help him
arrange a potential foreign policy trip to Russia. During the campaign he emailed and spoke with
her over Skype on numerous occasions about the potential foreign policy trip to Russia.
Papadopoulos Statement of Offense ,r,r
30-31.
Papadopoulos's false statements in January 2017 impeded the FBI's investigation into
Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Most immediately, those statements
hindered investigators' ability to effectively question Mifsud when he was interviewed in the lobby
of a Washington, D.C. hotel on February 10, 2017. See Gov't Sent. Mem. at 6, United States v.
George Papadopoulos, No. 1:17-cr-182 (D.D.C. Aug. 18, 2017), Doc. 44. During that interview,
Mifsud admitted to knowing Papadopoulos and to having introduced him to Polonskaya and
Timofeev. But Mifsud denied that he had advance knowledge that Russia was in possession of
emails damaging to candidate Clinton, stating that he and Papadopoulos had discussed
cybersecurity and hacking as a larger issue and that Papadopoulos must have misunderstood their
conversation. Mifsud also falsely stated that he had not seen Papadopoulos since the meeting at
which Mifsud introduced him to Polonskaya, even though emails, text messages , and other
information show that Mifsud met with Papadopoulos on at least two other occasions-April 12
and April 26, 2016. In addition, Mifsud omitted that he had drafted (or edited) the follow-up
message that Polonskaya sent to Papadopoulos following the initial meeting and that, as reflected
in the language of that email chain ("Baby, thank you!") , Mifsud may have been involved in a
personal relationship with Polonskaya at the time. The false information and omissions in
Papadopoulos's January 2017 interview undermined investigators' ability to challenge Mifsud
when he made these inaccurate statements.

193

