U.S. Department of Justice

Attomey Work Pt1oattet// May Co11tai11
Material Prnteetea U11aet1
Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

These considerations distinguish the Supreme Court ' s holding in Nixon v. Fitzgerald that,
in part because inquiries into the President ' s motives would be "highly intrusive," the President is
absolutely immune from private civil damages actions based on his official conduct. 457 U.S. at
756 -757. As Fitzgerald recognized, "there is a lesser public interest in actions for civil damages
than , for example, in criminal prosecutions." Fitzgerald, 457 U .S. at 754 n.37 ; see Cheney, 542
U.S. at 384. And private actions are not subject to the institutional protections of an action under
the supervision of the Attorney General and subject to a presumption of regularity . Armstrong,
51 7 U.S. at 464.
c. In the rare cases in which a substantial and credible basis justifies conducting an
investigation of the President , the process of examining his motivations to determine whether he
acted for a corrupt purpose need not have a chilling effect. Ascertaining the President 's
motivations would turn on any explanation he provided to justify his actions , the advice he
received , the circumstances surrounding the actions , and the regularity or irregularity of the
proces s he employed to make decisions. But grand juries and courts would not have automatic
access to confidential presidential communications on those matters; rather, they could be
presented in official proceedings only on a showing of sufficient need. Nixon, 418 U .S. at 712; In
re Sealed Case, 121 F.3d 729, 754 , 756-757 (D.C. Cir. 1997) ; see also Administrator of General
Services , 433 U.S. at 448 -449 (former President can invoke presidential communications privilege,
although successor's failure to support the claim "detracts from [its] weight ").
In any event , probing the President ' s intent in a criminal matter is unquestionabl y
constitutional in at least one context: the offense of bribery turns on the corrupt intent to receiv e
a thing of value in return for being influenced in official action. 18 U.S.C. § 20l(b)(2). There can
be no seriou s argument against the President ' s potential criminal liability for bribery offenses ,
notwithstanding the need to ascertain his purpose and intent. See U.S. CONST. ART. I,§ 3; ART. TI,
§ 4; see also Application of 28 US. C. § 458 to Presidential Appointments of Federal Judges, 19
Op. O.L.C. at 357 n.11 ("Application of§ 201 [to the President] raises no separation of powers
issue , let alone a serious one .").
d. Finally, history provides no reason to believe that any asserted chilling effect justifies
exempting the President from the obstruction laws. As a historical matt er, Presidents have very
seldom been the subjects of grand jury investigations . And it is rarer still for circumstances to
raise even the possibility of a corrupt personal motive for arguably obstructive action through the
President's use of official power. Accordingly, the President ' s conduct of office should not be
chilled based on hypothetical concerns about the possible application of a corrupt-motive standard
in this context.

*

*

*

In sum, contrary to the position taken by the President ' s counsel , we concluded that , in
light of the Supreme Court precedent governing separation-of -powers issues , we had a valid basis
for investigating the conduct at issue in this report. In our view, the application of the obstruction
statutes would not impermissibly burden the President ' s performance of his Article II function to
supervise prosecutorial conduct or to remove inferior law-enforcement officers.
And the
protection of the criminal justice system from corrupt acts by any person-including
the
President - accords with the fundamental principle of our government that "[n]o [person] in this
180

