U.S . Department of Justice
AttorHe:,· Work Protittet // May CoHtaiH Material Proteeteti UHtier Feti. R. Crim. P . 6(e)

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY TO VOLUME

II

Our obstruction-of-justice inquiry focused on a series of actions by the President that
related to the Russian-interference investigations , including the President's conduct towards the
law enforcement officials overseeing the investigations and the witnesses to relevant events.
FACTUAL RESULTS OF THE OBSTRUCTION INVESTIGATION

The key issues and events we examined include the following:

The Campaign's response to reports about Russian support for Trump. During the 2016
presidential campaign , questions arose about the Russian government's apparent support for
candidate Trump. After WikiLeaks released politically damaging Democratic Party emails that
were reported to have been hacked by Russia, Trump publicly expressed skepticism that Russia
was responsible for the hacks at the same time that he and other Campaign officials privately
sought information
about any further planned WikiLeaks
releases. Trump also denied having any business in or connections to Russia, even though as late
as June 2016 the Trump Organization had been pursuing a licensing deal for a skyscraper to be
built in Russia called Trump Tower Moscow. After the election, the President expressed concerns
to advisors that reports of Russia's election interference might lead the public to question the
legitimacy of his election .

Conduct involving FBI Director Comey and Michael Flynn. In mid-January 2017,
incoming National Security Advisor Michael Flynn falsely denied to the Vice President , other
administration officials, and FBI agents that he had talked to Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak
about Russia 's response to U.S. sanctions on Russia for its election interference. On January 27,
the day after the President was told that Flynn had lied to the Vice President and had made similar
statements to the FBI, the President invited FBI Director Corney to a private dinner at the White
House and told Corney that he needed loyalty. On February 14, the day after the President
requested Flynn's resignation, the President told an outside advisor , "Now that we fired Flynn , the
Russia thing is over." The advisor disagreed and said the investigations would continue.
Later that afternoon, the President cleared the Oval Office to have a one-on-one meeting
with Corney. Referring to the FBI's investigation of Flynn , the President said, "I hope you can
see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy . I hope you can let this
go." Shortly after requesting Flynn ' s resignation and speaking privately to Corney, the President
sought to have Deputy National Security Advisor K.T. McFarland draft an internal letter stating
that the President had not directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak. McFarland declined
because she did not know whether that was true , and a White House Counsel's Office attorney
thought that the request would look like a quid pro quo for an ambassadorship she had been offered.

The President's reaction to the continuing Russia investigation. In February 2017 ,
Attorney General Jeff Sessions began to assess whether he had to recuse himself from campaignrelated investigations because of his role in the Trump Campaign . In early March, the President
told White House Counsel Donald McGahn to stop Sessions from recusing. And after Sessions
announced his recusal on March 2, the President expressed anger at the decision and told advisors
that he should have an Attorney General who would protect him. That weekend, the President
took Sessions aside at an event and urged him to "unrecuse." Later in March , Corney publicly
3

