U.S. Department of Justice
At:tomey Work Protittet // May Contain Material Proteeteti Untier Feti. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

judicial, administrative, and congressional proceedings , and they are supplemented by a provision
in Section I 5 I 2(b) aimed specifically at conduct intended to prevent or hinder the communication
to law enforcement of information related to a federal crime.

Constitutional defenses. As for constitutional defenses arising from the President ' s status
as the head of the Executive Branch , we recognized that the Department of Justice and the courts
have not definitively resolved these issues. We therefore examined those issues through the
framework established by Supreme Court precedent governing separation-of-powers issues. The
Department of Justice and the President's personal counsel have recognized that the President is
subject to statutes that prohibit obstruction of justice by bribing a witness or suborning perjury
because that conduct does not implicate his constitutional authority. With respect to whether the
President ca,n be found to have obstructed justice by exercising his powers under Article II of the
Constitution, we concluded that Congress has authority to prohibit a President's corrupt use of his
authority in order to protect the integrity of the administration of justice .
Under applicable Supreme Court precedent, the Constitution does not categorically and
permanently immunize a President for obstructing justice through the use of his Article II powers.
The separation-of-powers doctrine authorizes Congress to protect official proceedings, including
those of courts and grand juries, from corrupt, obstructive acts regardless of their source. We also
concluded that any inroad on presidential authority that would occur from prohibiting corrupt acts
does not undermine the President's ability to fulfill his constitutional mission. The term
"corruptly " sets a demanding standard. It requires a concrete showing that a person acted with an
intent to obtain an improper advantage for himself or someone else, inconsistent with official duty
and the rights of others. A preclusion of " corrupt" official action does not diminish the President ' s
ability to exercise Article II powers. For example , the proper supervision of criminal law does not
demand freedom for the President to act with a corrupt intention of shielding himself from criminal
punishment, avoiding financial liability, or preventing personal embarrassment. To the contrary,
a statute that prohibits official action undertaken for such corrupt purposes furthers, rather than
hinders, the impartial and evenhanded administration of the law. It also aligns with the President's
constitutional duty to faithfully execute the laws. Finally , we concluded that in the rare case in
which a criminal investigation of the President's conduct is justified, inquiries to determine
whether the President acted for a corrupt motive should not impermissibly chill his performance
of his constitutionally assigned duties. The conclusion that Congress may apply the obstruction
laws to the President's corrupt exercise of the powers of office accords with our constitutional
system of checks and balances and the principle that no person is above the law.
CONCLUSION

Because we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment , we did not draw
ultimate conclusions about the President's conduct. The evidence we obtained about the
President's actions and intent presents difficult issues that would need to be resolved if we were
making a traditional prosecutorial judgment. At the same time, if we had confidence after a
thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice,
we would so state. Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, we are unable to reach
that judgment. Accordingly , while this report does not conclude that the President committed a
crime , it also does not exonerate him.

8

