U.S. De partment of Ju stice

Afterne)· Werle Preduet // Ma)' Cet1tait1Material Preteeted Ut1derFed. R. Crit1:i.P. 6(e)

Klimentov, Dmitri

Brother of Denis Klimentov who cont acted Kremlin press secretary
Dmitri Peskov abo ut Ca 1ter Page's Jul y 2016 v isit to Moscow.

Klokov, Dmitry

Exec utive for PJSC Federal Grid Company of Un ified Energy System
and former aide to Russ ia's mini ster of energy. He comm unicated with
Michael Cohen about a poss ible meeting between Vladimir Putin and
can didate Trump.

Kobyakov, Anton

Adviso r to Vladimir Putin and member of the Roscongress Foundati on
who invited candida te Trump to the St. Peter sburg Intern ationa l
Economic Forum .

Krickovic , Andrej

Profes sor at the Higher School of Economics who recommended that
Carter Page give a July 20 16 commenceme nt address in Moscow.

Krylova,
Aleksandra

intern et Research Agency employee who worked on "activ e measu res"
soc ial med ia campaign to interfere in the 20 16 U.S. presidential electi on;
traveled to the United States under false pretenses in 2014.

Kushner, Jared

President T rump 's son- in-law and senior advi sor to the President.

Kuznetsov, Sergey

Russian government offic ial at the Russian Embassy to the Un ited States
who transmitted Vladimir Putin 's congratu lations to President -Elect
Trump for his electora l victory on November 9, 20 16.

Landrum, Pete

Adv isor to Senato r Jeff Sess ions who attended the September 20 16
meeting between Sess ions and Russ ian Ambassador Sergey Kisl yak .

Lavrov, Sergey

Russian minister of foreign affa irs and former perm ane nt representat ive
of Ru ssia to the United Nat ions.

Ledeen, Barbara

Senate staffer and assoc iate of Micha el Flynn who sought to obta in
Hill ary Clinton emai ls during the 2016 U.S. pres idential ca mpaig n
period .

Ledeen, Michael

Member of the Presid ential Tra nsition Team who advised on fore ign
policy and national security matter s.

Ledgett, Richard

Deput y director of the Nat ional Security Agency (Jan.2014 - Apr. 2017);
present when Pres ident Trump called Michael Roge rs on March 26, 20 17.

Lewandowski,
Corey

Campa ign manager for the Trump Campaign (Jan. 2015 -J une 2016) .

Luff, Sandra

Legislative directo r for Senator Jeff Sess ions; attended a September 20 16
meeting betw een Sess ions and Rus sian Amba ssador Sergey Ki slyak.

Lyovochkin, Serhiy

Member of Ukrainian parliament and memb er of Ukrai nian political
party, Oppos ition Bloc Party .

Magnitsky, Sergei

Rus sian tax specialist who alleged Ru ssian governme nt corr uption and
d ied in Russ ian police custody in 2009. His death prompted passage of

B-6

