U.S. Department of Justice

,o\ttorttey Work Proclttet// MB:)'Cottta.iflMaterial Proteetecl UttclerFecl. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

,

!

Harm to Ongoing
Matter

On October 27, 2017 , Paul Manafort and Richard Gates were charged in the District of
Columbia with various crimes (including FARA) in connection with work they performed for
Russia-backed political entities in Ukraine. On February 22 , 2018, Manafort and Gates were
charged in the Eastern District of Virginia with various other crimes in connection with the
payments they received for work performed for Russia-backed political entities in Ukraine.
During the course of its
, the Special Counsel's Office developed substantial
evidence with respect to individuals n entities that wer
. On February 23, 2018, Gates pleaded guilty in the District of Columbia to a multiobject conspiracy and to making false statements; the remaining charges against Gates were
dismissed .3 Thereafter , in consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General , the Special
Counsel's Office closed the
and referred them
for further
investigation as it deemed appropriate . The Office based its decision to close those matter s on its
mandate , the indictments .ofManafort, Gates ' s plea , and its determination as to how best to allocate
its resources , among other reasons ;
d
At Harm to Ongoing Matter

1u•m•

the investigation of those closed matt ers.
10. United States v. Roger Stone

US. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia
(Awaiting trial)

11. Harm to Ongoing Matter
(Investigation ongoing)

B. Referrals
During the course of the investigation, the Office periodically identified evidence of
potential criminal activity _that was outside the scope of the Special Counsel's jurisdiction
establi shed by the Acting Attorney General. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy
Attorney General, the Office referred that evidence to appropriate law enforcement authorities ,
principally other components of the Department of Justice and the FBI. Those referrals, listed

3 Manafort was ultimately convicted at trial in the Eastern District of Virginia and pleaded guilty
in the District of Columbia. See Vol. I, Section IV.A.8. The trial and plea happened after the transfer
decision described here.

D-3

