U.S. Department of Justice

Attorney Work Pt•oclttet// Mfi)' C0Ht1:1ifl
M1:1teri1:1I
Proteetecl UHclerFecl. R. Crin'l. P. 6(e)
November 8, 2016. I do not recall discussing WikiLeaks with him, nor do I recall being aware of
Mr. Stone having discussed WikiLeaks with individuals associated with my campaign , although I
was aware that WikiLeaks was the subject of media reporting and campaign-related discussion at
the time.

Response to Question II, Part (h)
I do not recall having had any discussion during the campaign regarding a pardon or action to
benefit Julian Assange .

Response to Question II, Part (i)
I do not recall being aware during the campaign of specific effo11s by foreign individuals or
companies to assist my campaign through the use of social media postings or the organization of
rallies .

III.

The Trump Organization Moscow Project

a.

In October 2015, a " Letter oflntent," a copy of which is attached as Exhibit B, was signed
for a proposed Trump Organization project in Moscow (the "Trump Moscow project ").
1.

When were you first informed of discussions about the Trump Moscow project?
By whom? What were you told about the project?

ii.

Did you sign the letter of intent?

b.

In a statement provided to Congress , attached as Exhibit C, Michael Cohen stated: "To the
best of my knowledge , Mr. Trump was never in contact with anyone about this proposal
other than me on three occasions , including signing a non-binding letter of intent in 2015 ."
Describe al I discussions you had with Mr. Cohen , or anyone else associated with the Trump
Organization , about the Trump Moscow project , including who you spoke with, when , and
the substance of the discussion(s).

c.

Did you learn of any communications between Michael Cohen or Felix Sater and any
Russian government officials, including officials in the office of Dmitry Peskov , regarding
the Trump Moscow project? If so, identify who provided this info1mation to you , when ,
and the substance of what you learned.

d.

Did you have any discussions between June 2015 and June 2016 regarding a potential trip
to Russia by you and/or Michael Cohen for reasons related to the Trump Moscow project ?
If yes , describe who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s).

e.

Did you at any time direct or suggest that discussions about the Trump Moscow project

14

C-19

