U.S. Department of Justice
Atterney '.Verk Prnffttet // Ma)" Genta.in Material Preteeteff UAfferFed. R. Crim.. P. 6(e)

iii.

Are you aware of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including Roger
Stone, reaching out to WikiLeaks, either directly or through an intermediary, on or
about October 7, 2016? If yes, identify the person and describe the substance of the
conversations or contacts.

f.

Were you told of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including Roger Stone,
having any discussions, directly or indirectly, with WikiLeaks, Guccifer 2.0, or DCLeaks
regarding the content or timing of release of hacked emails? lf yes, describe who had such
contacts, how you became aware of the contacts, when you became aware of the contacts,
and the substance of the contacts.

g.

From June 1, 2016 through the end of the campaign, how frequently did you communicate
with Roger Stone? Describe the nature of your communication(s) with Mr. Stone.
1.

During that time period, what efforts did Mr. Stone tell you he was making to assist
your campaign, and what requests. if any, did you make of Mr. Stone?

ii.

Did Mr. Stone ever discuss WikiLeaks with you or, as far as you were aware, with
anyone else associated with the campaign? If yes, describe what you were told, from
whom. and when.

111.

Did Mr. Stone at anytime inform you about contacts he had with WikiLeaks or any
intermediary of WikiLeaks. or about forthcoming releases of information? lf yes,
describe what Stone told you and when.

h.

Did you have any discussions prior to January 20, 2017, regarding a potential pardon or
other action to benefit Julian Assange? If yes, describe who you had the discussion(s) with,
when, and the content of the discussion(s).

i.

Were you aware of any efforts by foreign individuals or companies. including those in
Russia, to assist your campaign through the use of social media postings or the organization
of rallies? If yes, identify who you discussed such assistance with, when, and the content
of the discussion(s).

Response to Question II, Part (a)

I do not remember the date on which it was publicly reported that the DNC had been hacked, but
my best recollection is that I learned of the hacking at or shortly after the time it became the subject
of media reporting. I do not recall being provided any information during the campaign about the
hacking of any of the named entities or individuals before it became the subject of media reporting.

12

C-17

