U.S. Department of Justice
Atton~e)' Work Prot:lttet// MB:)'Cofltll:iflMateriB:IProteetea URaer Fee. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

after being sworn in.495 Late in the morning of May 12, 2017, the President tweeted, "Again, the
story that there was collusion between the Russians & Trump campaign was fabricated by Dems
as an excuse for losing the election." 496 The President also tweeted, "James Corney better hope
that there are no 'tapes' of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!" and "When
James Clapper himself, and virtually everyone else with knowledge of the witch hunt, says there
is no collusion, when does it end?" 497

Analysis
In analyzing the President's decision to fire Corney , the following evidence is relevant to
the elements of obstruction of justice:
a.
Obstructive act. The act of firing Corney removed the individual overseeing the
FBl's Russia investigation. The President knew that Corney was personally involved in the
investigation based on Corney's briefing of the Gang of Eight, Corney's March 20, 2017 public
testimony about the investigation, and the President ' s one-on-one conversations with Corney .
Firing Corney would qualify as an obstructive act if it had the natural and probable effect
of interfering with or impeding the investigation-for example, if the termination would have the
effect of delaying or disrupting the investigation or providing the President with the opportunity
to appoint a director who would take a different approach to the investigation that the President
perceived as more protective of his personal interests. Relevant circumstances bearing on that
issue include whether the President's actions had the potential to discourage a successor director
or other law enforcement officials in their conduct of the Russia investigation. The President fired
Corney abruptly without offering him an opportunity to resign , banned him from the FBI building,
and criticized him publicly, calling him a "showboat" and claiming that the FBI was "in turmoil"
under his leadership. And the President followed the termination with public statements that were
highly critical of the investigation; for example , three days after firing Corney , the President
referred to the investigation as a "witch hunt" and asked , "when does it end?" Those actions had
the potential to affect a successor director's conduct of the investigation.
The anticipated effect of removing the FBI director , however, would not necessarily be to
prevent or impede the FBI from continuing its investigation. As a general matter, FBI
investigations run under the operational direction of FBI personnel levels below the FBI director.
Bannon made a similar point when he told the President that he could fire the FBI director , but
could not fire the FBI. The White House issued a press statement the day after Corney was fired
that said, "The investigation would have always continued , and obviously , the termination of
Corney would not have ended it." In addition, in his May 11 interview with Lester Holt , the
President stated that he understood when he made the decision to fire Corney that the action might
prolong the investigation . And the President chose McCabe to serve as interim director, even
495

Michael S. Schmidt, In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Corney Demurred., New
York Times (May 11, 2017).
496

@rea!DonaldTrump 5/12/ 17 (7:51 a.m. ET) Tweet.

49 7

@rea!DonaldTrump 5/ 12/17 (8:26 a.m . ET) Tweet; @rea!DonaldTrump 5/ 12/17 (8:54 a.m. ET)

Tweet.

74

