U.S. Department of Ju stice
Atton1ey Work Proelttet// Ma) CoAtaiflMaterial ProteeteEIUflElerFeel.R. Crim. P. 6(e)
1

Guccifer 2.0

Fict itious online persona operated by the GRU that released stolen
documents during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign period.

I.C. Expert Investment
Company

Russian real-estate and development corporat ion that signed a letter of
intent with a Trump Organization subsidiary to develop a Trump
Moscow property.

Internet Research
Agency (IRA)

Russian entity based in Saint Petersburg and funded by Concord that
engaged in an "active measures" social media campaign to interfere in
the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

KLS Research LLC

Business estab lished by an associate of and at the direction of Peter
Smith to further Smith's search for Hillary Clinton emails.

Kremlin

Official residence of the president of the Russian Federation; it is used
colloquiall y to refer to the office of the president or the Russian
government.

LetterOne

Company that includes Petr Aven and Richard Burt as board members.
During a board meeting in December 2016, Aven asked for Burt's help
to make contact with the Presidential Transition Team.

Link Campus
University

University in Rome, Italy, where
introduced to Joseph Mifsud.

London Centre of
International Law
Practice (LCILP)

International law advisory organ ization in London that employed
Joseph Mifsud and George Papadopoulos.

Main Intelligence
Directorate of the
General Staff (GRU)

Russian Federation's militar y intelligence agency.

New Economic School
in Moscow (NES)

Moscow-based school that invited Carter Page to speak at its Ju ly2016
commencemen t ceremony.

Opposition Bloc

Ukrainian political party that incorporated members of the defunct
Party of Regions.

Party of Regions

Ukra inian political party of former President Yanukovych. It was
generall y understood to align with Russian policies.

Pericles Emerging
Market Partners LLP

Company registered in the Cayman Islands by Paul Manafort and his
bus iness partner Rick Davis. Oleg Deripaska invested in the fund.

Prevezon Holdings Ltd.

Russian company that was a defendant in a U.S. civil action alleging
the launderin g of proceeds from fraud exposed by Sergei Magnitsky.

Roscongress
Foundation

Russian entity that organized the St. Petersburg
Econom ic Forum.

Rosneft

Russian state-owned oil and energy company .

Russian Direct
Investment Fund

Sovereign wealth fund established by the Russian Government in 2011
and headed by Kirill Dmitriev.

B-12

George

Papadopoulos

was

Internat ional

