U.S. Department of Justice
AttorHey Work Proattet II May CoHtaiHMaterial Proteetea UHaer Fea. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

Ill.

The Trump Organization Moscow Project

a. In October 2015, a "Letter of Intent," a copy of which is attached as Exhibit B, was
signed for a proposed Trump Organization project in Moscow (the "Trump
Moscow project").
i. When were you first informed of discussions about the Trump Moscow
project? By whom? What were you told about the project?
ii. Did you sign the letter of intent?
b. In a statement provided to Congress, attached as Exhibit C, Michael Cohen stated:
"To the best of my knowledge, Mr. Trump was never in contact with anyone about
this proposal other than me on three occasions, including signing a non-binding
letter of intent in 2015." Describe all discussions you had with Mr. Cohen, or
anyone else associated with the Trump Organization , about the Trump Moscow
project, including who you spoke with, when, and the substance of the
d iscussion(s).
c. Did you learn of any communications between Michael Cohen or Felix Sater and
any Russian government officials, including officials in the office of Dmitry Peskov,
regarding the Trump Moscow project? If so, identify who provided this
information to you, when , and the substance of what you learned.
d. Did you have any discussions between June 2015 and June 2016 regarding a
potential trip to Russia by you and/or Michael Cohen for reasons related to the
Trump Moscow project? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the
substance of the discussion(s).
e. Did you at any time direct or suggest that discussions about the Trump Moscow
project should cease, or were you informed at any time that the project had been
abandoned? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, the substance of the
discussion(s), and why that decision was made.
f.

Did you have any discussions regarding what information would be provided
publicly or in response to investigative inquiries about potential or actual
investments or business deals the Trump Organization had in Russia, including the
Trump Moscow project? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the
substance of the discussion(s).

g. Aside from the Trump Moscow project, did you or the Trump Organization have
any other prospective or actual business interests, investments, or arrangements
with Russia or any Russian interest or Russian individual during the campaign? If
yes, describe the business interests, investments, or arrangements.

C-7

