U.S. Department of Justice
AMerHe~·Werk Preclttet // Mtty Cm~taiH Material Preteeteel UHeler Feel. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office referred that evidence to appropriate law
enforcement authorities, principally other components of the Department of Justice and to the FBI.
Appendix D summarizes those referrals.

***
To carry out the investigation and prosecution of the matters assigned to him, the Special
Counsel assembled a team that at its high point included 19 attorneys-five of whom joined the
Office from private practice and 14 on detail or assigned from other Department of Justice
components. These attorneys were assisted by a filter team of Department lawyers and FBI
personnel who screened materials obtained via court process for privileged information before
turning those materials over to investigators; a support staff of three paralegals on detail from the
Department's Antitrust Division; and an administrative staff of nine responsible for budget ,
finance, purchasing, human resources, records, facilities, security , information technology, and
administrative support. The Special Counsel attorneys and support staff were co-located with and
worked alongside approximately 40 FBI agents, intelligence analysts, forensic accountants, a
paralegal, and professional staff assigned by the FBI to assist the Special Counsel's investigation.
Those "assigned" FBI employees remained under FBI supervision at all times; the matters on
which they assisted were supervised by the Special Counsel. 1
During its investigation the Office issued more than 2,800 subpoenas under the auspices of
a grand jury sitting in the District of Columbia; executed nearly 500 search-and-seizure warrants;
obtained more than 230 orders for communications records under 18 U .S.C. § 2703(d); obtained
almost 50 orders authorizing use of pen registers; made 13 requests to foreign governments
pursuant to Mutual Legal Assistance Treaties; and interviewed approximately 500 witnesses,
including almost 80 before a grand jury.

* **
From its inception, the Office recognized that its investigation could identify foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence information relevant to the FBl's broader national security
mission. FBI personnel who assisted the Office established procedures to identify and convey
such information to the FBI. The FBI's Counterintelligence Division met with the Office regularly
for that purpose for most of the Office ' s tenure. For more than the past year, the FBI also
embedded personnel at the Office who did not work on the Special Counsel's investigation, but
whose purpose was to review the results of the investigation and to send-in writing-summaries
of foreign intelligence and counterintelligence information to FBIHQ and FBI Field Offices.
Those communications and other correspondence between the Office and the FBI contain
information derived from the investigation, not all of which is contained in this Volume. This
Volume is a summary. It contains, in the Office 's judgment, that information necessary to account
for the Special Counsel ' s prosecution and declination decisions and to describe the investigation's
main factual results.
1

FBI personnel assigned to the Special Counsel ' s Office were required to adhere to all applicable
federal law and all Department and FBI regulations, guidelines , and policies. An FBI attorney worked on
FBI-related matters for the Office, such as FBI compliance with all FBI policies and procedures , including
the FBI' s Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide (DIOG). That FBI attorney worked under FBI
legal supervision , not the Special Counsel ' s supervision.

13

