U.S . Department of Justice
At:1:et1tte)
Wet1kPt1eettet// Mtty Cetttaitt Matet1ialPt1eteeteeUtteet1Fee. R. Crit1'1.P. 6(e)
1

reaction , Simes believed that he provided the same information at a small group meeting of foreign
policy experts that CNI organized for Sessions. 663
5. June 9, 2016 Meeting at Trump Tower
On June 9, 2016 , senio r representatives of the Trump Campaign met in Trump Tower with
a Russian attorney expecting to receive derogatory information about Hillary Clinton from the
Russian government. The meeting was proposed to Donald Trump Jr. in an email from Robert
Goldstone , at the request of his then-client Emin Agalarov , the son of Russian real-estate developer
Aras Agalarov . Goldstone relayed to Trump Jr. that the "Crown prosecutor of Russia ... offered
to provide the Trump Campaign with some official documents and information that would
incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia " as "part of Russia and its government's support
for Mr. Trump. " Trump Jr. immediately responded that "if it's what you say I love it," and arranged
the meeting through a series of emails and telephone calls.
Trump Jr. invited campaign chairman Paul Manafort and senior advisor Jared Kushner to
attend the meeting, and both attended . Members of the Campaign discussed the meeting before it
occurred , and Michael Cohen recalled that Trump Jr. may have told candidate Trump about an
upcoming meeting to receive adverse information about Clinton , without linking the meeting to
Russia. According to written answers submitted by President Trump , he has no recollection of
learning of the meeting at the time , and the Office found no documentary evidence showing that he
was made aware of the meeting-or its Russian connection-before it occurred.
The Russian attorney who spoke at the meeting, Natalia Veselnitskaya , had previously
worked for the Russian government and maintained a relationship with that government throughout
this period of time. She claimed that funds derived from illegal activities in Russia were provided
to Hillary Clinton and other Democrats. Trump Jr. requested evidence to support those claims, but
Veselnitskaya did not provide such information. She and her associates then turned to a critique of
the origins of the Magnitsky Act , a 2012 statute that imposed financial and travel sanctions on
Russian officials and that resulted in a retaliatory ban on adoptions of Russian children . Trump Jr.
suggest ed that the issue could be revisited when and if candidate Trump was elected. After the
election , Veselnitskaya made additional efforts to follow up on the meeting, but the Trump
Transition Team did not engage .

a. Setting Up the June 9 Meeting
i. Outreach to Donald Trump Jr.
Aras Agalarov is a Russian real-estate develop er with ties to Putin and other members of
the Russian government , including Russia ' s Prosecutor General, Yuri Chaika. 664 Aras Agalarov
is the president of the Crocus Group, a Russian enterprise that holds substantial Russian
government construction contracts and that-as discussed above, Volume I, Section IV .A. I, supra
663

Simes 3/8/18 302, at 30 .

66 4

Goldstone 2/8/18 302 ,

at 4.
110

