U.S. Department of Justice
Attomey \l/Ofk Prndttet // Ma)' Cm'ttaiH Material Proteeteel UHder Fed. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Analysis
In analyzing the President ' s efforts to have Lewandowski deliver a message directing
Sessions to publicly announce that the Special Counsel investigation would be confined to future
election interference, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruction of justice:
a.
Obstructive act. The President ' s effort to send Sessions a message through
Lewandowski would qualify as an obstructive act if it would naturally obstruct the investigation
and any grand jury proceedings that might flow from the inquiry.
The President sought to have Sessions announce that the President " shouldn't have a
Special Prosecutor/Counsel " and that Sessions was going to "meet with the Special Prosecutor to
explain this is very unfair and let the Special Prosecutor move forward with investigating election
, meddling for future elections so that nothing can happen in future elections ." The President wanted
Sessions to disregard his recusal from the investigation , which had followed from a formal DOJ
ethics review , and have Sessions declare that he knew "for a fact " that "there were no Russians
involved with the campaign" because he "was there." The President further directed that Sessions
should explain that the President should not be subject to an investigation "because he hasn't done
anything wrong." Taken together , the President 's directives indicate that Sessions was being
instructed to tell the Special Counsel to end the existing investigation into the President and his
campaign, with the Special Counsel being permitted to "move forward with investigating election
meddling for future elections."
b.
Nexus to an official proceeding. As described above, by the time of the President's
initial one-on-one meeting with Lewandowski on June 19, 2017, the existence of a grand jury
investigation supervised by the Special Counsel was ublic knowled e. B the time of the
President ' s follow -u meetin with Lewandowski,

See Volume II, Section ILG , infra. To satisfy the nexus requirement ,
it would be necessary to show that limiting the Special Counsel's investigation would have the
natural and probable effect of impeding that grand jury proceeding .
c.
Intent. Substantial evidence indicates that the President's effort to have Sessions
limit the scope of the Special Counsel 's investigation to future election interference was intended
to prevent further investigative scrutiny of the President's and his campaign's conduct.
As previously described, see Volume II, Section II.B, supra , the President knew that the
Russia investigation was focused in part on his campaign, and he perceived allegations of Russian
interference to cast doubt on the legitimacy of his election. The President further knew that the
investigation had broadened to include his own conduct and whether he had obstructed justice.
Those investigations would not proceed if the Special Counsel's jurisdiction were limited to future
election interference only.
The timing and circumstances of the President's actions support the conclusion that he
sought that result. The President's initial direction that Sessions should limit the Special Counsel's
investigation came just two days after the President had ordered McGahn to ~ave the Special
Counsel removed , which itself followed public reports that the President was personally under

97

