U.S. Department of Justice
AttefHe.)·Werk Preelttet // May CeRtaiHMaterial Pwteeteel UHelerFeel.R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

prosecution memorandum submitted to the Acting Attorney General before the original indictment
in that case.

In addition, the investigation produced evidence of FARA violations involving Michael
Flynn. Those potential violations, however, concerned a country other than Russia (i.e., Turkey)
and were resolved when Flynn admitted to the underlying facts in the Statement of Offense that
accompanied his guilty plea to a false-statements charge. Statement of Offense, United States v.
Michael T. Flynn, No. l:17-cr-232 (D.D.C. Dec. 1, 2017), Doc. 4 ("Flynn Statement of
Offense "). 1281
The investigation did not, however , yield evidence sufficient to sustain any charge that any
individual affiliated with the Trump Campaign acted as an agent of a foreign principal within the
meaning of FARA or, in terms of Section 951, subject to the direction or control of the government
of Russia, or any official thereof. In particular , the Office did not find evidence likely to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that Campaign officials such as Paul Manafort , George Papadopoulos ,
and Carter Page acted as agents of the Russian overnment-or at its direction, control, or
re uest-durin
the relevant time eriod. 1282

As a result, the Office did not charge
any other Trump Campaign official with violating
FARA or Section 951, or attempting or conspiring to do so, based on contacts with the Russian
government or a Russian principal.
Finally, the Office investigated whether one of the above campaign advisors-George
Papadopoulos-acted as an agent of, or at the direction and control of, the government of Israel.
While the investigation revealed significant ties between Papadopoulos and Israel (and search
warrants were obtained in part on that basis), the Office ultimately determined that the evidence
was not sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction under FARA or Section 951.
3. Campaign Finance
Several areas of the Office's investigation involved efforts or offers by foreign nationals to
provide negative information about candidate Clinton to the Trump Campaign or to distribute that
information to the public, to the anticipated benefit of the Campaign. As explained below, the
Office considered whether two of those efforts in particular-the June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump

1282

On four occasions, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) issued warrants based
on a finding of probable cause to believe that Page was an agent ofa foreign power. 50 U.S.C. §§ 1801(b),
1805(a)(2)(A). The FISC ' s probable-cause finding was based on a different (and lower) standard than the
one governing the Office ' s decision whether to bring charges against Page, which is whether admissible
evidence would likely be sufficient to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Page acted as an agent of the
Russian Federation during the period at issue. Cf United States v. Cardoza, 713 F.3d 656, 660 (D.C. Cir.
2013) (explaining that probable cause requires only "a fair probability ," and not "certainty , or proof beyond
a reasonable doubt, or proof by a preponderance of the evidence").

183

