U.S. Department of Justice
A1:torReyWork Proauet II May CoRtaiR Material Proteetea URaer Fea. R. Ct•iffi.P. 6(e)

RESPONSESOF PRESIDENTDONALDJ. TRUMP
I.

June 9, 2016 Meeting at Trump Tower

a.

When did you first learn that Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner was
considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative
information about Hillary Clinton? Describe who you learned the information from and the
substance of the discussion.

b.

Attached to this document as Exhibit A is a series of emails from June 2016 between ,
among others, Donald Trump, Jr. and Rob Goldstone. In addition to the emails reflected in.
Exhibit A, Donald Trump, Jr. had other communications with Rob Goldstone and £min
Agalarov between )une 3, 2016, and June 9, 2016.

c.

i.

Did Mr. Trump, Jr. or anyone else tell you about or show you any of these
communications? If yes, describe who discussed the communications with you,
when, and the substance of the discussion(s) .

11.

When did you first see or learn about all or any part of the emails reflected in
Exhibit A?

iii.

When did you first learn that the proposed meeting involved cir was described as
being part of Russia and its government's support for your candidacy?

iv.

Did you suggest to or direct anyone not to discuss or release publicly al I or any
portion of the emails reflected in Exhibit A? If yes, describe who you
communicated with, when, the substance of the communication(s) , and why you
took that action.

On June 9, 2016, Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner attended a meeting
at Trump Tower with several individuals, including a Russian lawyer, Natalia
Veselnitskaya (the "June 9 meeting").
i.

Other than as set fotth in your answers to I.a and l.b, what, if anything, were you
told about the possibility of this meeting taking place, or the scheduling of such a
meeting? Describe who you discussed this with, when, and what you were informed
about the meeting.

ii.

When did you learn that some of the individuals attending the June 9 meeting were
Russian or had any affiliation with any part of the Russian government? Describe
who you learned this information from and the substance of the discussion(s).

6

C-11

