U.S. Department of Justice
A'.~erRe:,·
Wefk Prnattet// MttyCeH:tttifl
MftterittlPrnteeteaURaerFee. R. Crim.P. 6(e)

2. Intrusions into the DCCC and DNC Networks

a. Initial Access
By no later than April 12, 2016 , the GRU had gained access to the DCCC computer
network using the credentials stolen from a DCCC employee who had been successfully
spearphished the week before . Over the ensuing weeks, the GRU traversed the network ,
identifying different computers connected to the DCCC network . By stealing network access
credentials along the way (including those of IT administrators with unrestricted access to the
system) , the GRU compromised approximately 29 different computers on the DCCC network. 119
Approximately six days after first hacking into the DCCC network, on April 18, 2016 ,
GRU officers gained access to the DNC network via a virtual private network (VPN) connection 120
between the DCCC and DNC networks . 121 Between April 18, 2016 and June 8, 2016 , Unit 26165
compromised more than 30 computers on the DNC network, including the DNC mail server and
shared file server. 122

b. Implantation of Ma/ware on DCCC and DNC Networks
Unit 26165 implanted on the DCCC and DNC networks two types of customized
malware , 123 known as "X-Agent" and "X-Tunnel " ; Mimikatz , a credential -harvesting tool ; and
rar.exe , a tool used in these intrusions to compile and compress materials for exfiltration. X-Agent
was a multi-function hacking tool that allowed Unit 26165 to log keystrokes , take screenshots , and
gather other data about the infected computers (e.g., file directories, operating systems). 124 XTunnel was a hacking tool that created an encrypted connection between the victim DCCC /DNC
computers and GRU-controlled computers outside the DCCC and DNC networks that was capable
of large -scale data transfers. 125 GRU officers then used X-Tunnel to exfiltrate stolen data from the
victim computers.

120

A VPN extends a private network, allowing users to send and receive data across public
networks (such as the internet) as if the connecting computer was directly connected to the private network.
The VPN in this case had been created to give a small number of DCCC employees access to certain
databases housed on the DNC network . Therefore, while the DCCC emplo yees were outside the DNC's
private network , they could access parts of the DNC network from their DCCC computers.

123
"Malware" is short for maliciou s software, and here refers to software designed to allow a third
party to infiltrate a computer without the consent or knowledge of the computer ' s user or operator.
124

Investigative Technique

125

Investigative Technique
38

