U.S. Departm ent of Ju stice
Attarney Wark Prnduet // May CaRtaiH Material Prnteeted Uftder Fed. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Harm to Ongoing Matter

Hawker , Jonathan

Public rela tions consu ltant at FTI Consulting; worked with Dav is
Manafort Internati onal LLC on publi c relations campaign in Ukra ine.

Heilbrunn, Jacob

Editor of the Na tional Interest, the period ical that officiall y hosted
candidate Trump 's April 2016 foreign policy speech.

Hicks, Hope

White H ouse communication s director (Aug. 2017 - Mar. 20 18) and
pres s secretary for the Trump Campaig n .

Holt, Lester

N BC News anchor who interviewed Pres ident Trump on Ma y 11, 20 17 .

Hunt, Jody

Chief of staff to Attorney General Jeff Sess ions (Feb. 2017 - Oct. 2017).

Ivanov, Igor

Preside nt of the Russ ian Interna tional Affairs Council and former
Russian foreign minister. Ivan Timofeev told George Pap adopoulos that
Ivanov. advi sed on arrang ing a "Moscow v isit" for the Trump Campa ign.

Ivanov, Sergei

Spec ial repr esentative of Vladimir Putin , former Russian deputy prime
mini ste r, and former FSB deputy directo r. In January 2016, Michael
Cohen emai led the Kremlin requesting to speak to Ivanov.

Kasowitz, Marc

President Trump 's personal counse l (M ay 20 17 - July 20 17) .

Katsyv, Denis

Son of Peter Katsyv; owner of Russia n company Prevezo n Hold ings Ltd .
and associate of Na talia Vese lnitskaya .

Katsyv, Peter

Russian businessma n and father of Deni s Kat syv.

Harm to Ongoing Matter
Kaveladze, Irakli

(Ike)

Vice presi dent at Croc us Group and Aras Agalarov's deputy in the United
States. He partic ipated in the Jun e 9, 2016 meet ing at Trump Tow er
between Nata lia Ve selnitskaya and Trump Campaign officia ls.

Kaverzina, Irina

Employee of the Internet Researc h Agency, which engaged in an "a ctive
measures " soc ial media campaig n to interfere in th e 20 16 U.S.
pres identia l electio n.

Kelly, John

White House chief of staff (Ju ly 2017 - Jan. 2019).

Khalilzad, Zalmay

U .S. special repre sentative to Afg hanistan and former U.S. ambassa dor.
He met w ith Senator Jeff Sessio ns during fore ign polic y dinners put
together th rough the Center for th e Na tional Interest.

Kilimnik ,
Konstantin

Russian-Ukra inian politica l consu ltant and long-time employee of Paul
Manafort assessed by the FBI to have ties to Russ ian inte lligence.

Kislyak, Sergey

Fo rmer Ru ssian ambassa dor to the United States and current Russ ian
senator from Mo rdovia.

Klimento v, Denis

Emplo yee of the New Econo mic Schoo l who informed high-ranking
Russian gove rnm ent offic ia ls of Carter Page's Ju ly 20 16 visit to Moscow.

B-5

