U.S. Department of Justice
Atterf!e~· Werk Preclttet // May CetttaiH Material Preteetecl Uflcler Fecl. R. Criffi. P. 6(e)

Second, many obstruction cases involve the attempted or actual cover-up of an underlying
crime. Personal criminal conduct can furnish strong evidence that the individual had an improper
obstructive purpose , see, e.g., United States v. Willoughby , 860 F.2d 15, 24 (2d Cir. 1988), or that
he contemplated an effect on an official proceeding, see, e.g., United States v. Binday , 804 F.3d
558,591 (2d Cir . 2015). But proof of such a crime is not an element of an obstruction offense.
See United States v. Greer , 872 F.3d 790, 798 (6th Cir. 2017) (stating , in applying the obstruction
sentencing guideline , that "obstruction of a criminal investigation is punishable even if the
prosecution is ultimately unsuccessful or even if the investigation ultimately reveals no underlying
crime"). Obstruction of justice can be motivated by a desire to protect non-criminal personal
interests , to protect against investigations where underlying criminal liability falls into a gray area ,
or to avoid personal embarrassment. The injury to the integrity of the justice system is the same
regardless of whether a person committed an underlying wrong.
In this investigation, the evidence does not establish that the President was involved in an
underlying crime related to Russian election interference. But the evidence does point to a range
of other possible personal motives animating the President's conduct. These include concerns that
continued investigation would call into question the legitimacy of his election and potential
uncertainty about whether certain events-such
as advance notice of WikiLeaks's release of
hacked information or the June 9, 2016 meeting between senior campaign officials and Russianscould be seen as criminal activity by the President , his campaign , or his family .
Third , many of the President 's acts directed at witnesses, including discouragement of
cooperation with the government and suggestions of possible future pardons, occurred in public
view. While it may be more difficult to establish that public-facing acts were motivated by a
corrupt intent , the President ' s power to influence actions , persons, and events is enhanced by his
unique ability to attract attention through use of mass communications . And no principle of law
excludes public acts from the scope of obstruction statutes. If the likely effect of the acts is to
intimidate witnesses or alter their testimony, the justice system's integrity is equally threatened.
2. Although the events we investigated involved discrete acts -e .g. , the President 's
statement to Corney about the Flynn investigation , his termination of Corney , and his efforts to
remove the Special Counsel - it is important to view the President's pattern of conduct as a whole .
That pattern sheds light on the nature of the President 's acts and the inferences that can be drawn
about his intent.
a. Our investigation found multiple acts by the President that were capable of exe1ting
undue influence over law enforcement investigations , including the Russian-interference and
obstruction investigations. The incidents were often carried out through one-on-one meetings in
which the President sought to use his official power outside of usual channels. These actions
ranged from efforts to remove the Special Counsel and to reverse the effect of the Attorney
General's recusal; to the attempted use of official power to limit the scope of the investigation; to
direct and indirect contacts with witnesses with the potential to influence their testimony. Viewing
the acts collectively can help to illuminate their significance. For example , the President's
direction to McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed was followed almost immediately by
his direction to Lewandowski to tell the Attorney General to limit the scope of the Russia
investigation to prospective election-interference only-a temporal connection that suggests that
both acts were taken with a related purpose with respect to the investigation.
157

