U.S. Department of Justice
Attontey Work Proeittet // Mtty Corttairt Materittl Proteeteei Urteier Fee . R. Crim . P. 6(e)

Analysis
In analyzing the President's conduct related to Cohen, the following evidence is relevant
to the elements of obstruction of justice.
a.
Obstructive act. We gathered evidence of the President's conduct related to Cohen
on two issues: (i) whether the President or others aided or participated in Cohen ' s false statements
to Congress , and (ii) whether the President took actions that would have the natural tendency to
prevent Cohen from providing truthful information to the government.
i.
First, with regard to Cohen ' s false statements to Congress, while there is
evidence , described below, that the President knew Cohen provided false testimony to Congress
about the Trump Tower Moscow project , the evidence available to us does not establish that the
President directed or aided Cohen's false testimony.

Cohen said that his statements to Congress followed a "party line" that developed within
the campaign to align with the President's public statements distancing the President from Russia.
Cohen also recalled that, in speaking with the President in advance of testifying, he made it clear
that he would stay on message-which Cohen believed they both understood would require false
testimony. But Cohen said that he and the President did not explicitly discuss whether Cohen ' s
testimony about the Trump Tower Moscow project would be or was false, and the President did
not direct him to provide false testimony. Cohen also said he did not tell the President about the
specifics of his planned testimony. During the time when his statement to Congress was being
drafted and circulated to members of the JOA, Cohen did not speak directly to the President about
the statement, but rather communicated with the President's personal counsel-as corroborated by
phone records showing extensive communications between Cohen and the President's personal
counsel before Cohen submitted his statement and when he testified before Congress.
Cohen recalled that in his discussions with the President's personal counsel on August 27,
2017- the day before Cohen's statement was submitted to Congress - Cohen said that there were
more communications with Russia and more communications with candidate Trump than the
statement reflected. Cohen recalled expressing some concern at that time . According to Cohen,
the President's personal counsel-who
did not have first-hand knowledge of the project responded by saying that there was no need to muddy the water , that it was unnecessary to include
those details because the project did not take place, and that Cohen should keep his statement short
and tight, not elaborate , stay on message , and not contradict the President. Cohen 's recollection
of the content of those conversations is consistent with direction about the substance of Cohen ' s
draft statement that appeared to come from members of the IDA. For example, Cohen omitted
any reference to his outreach to Russian government officials to set up a meeting between Trump
and Putin during the United Nations General Assembly , and Cohen believed it was a decision of

of conversations beyond that contained in the President's [written responses to the Special Counsel ' s
Office]." 2/6/19 Letter, President's Personal Counsel to Special Counsel's Office.

153

