U.S. Department of Justice
Aftot'Re}"Work Proettet // Mtt}' CoRtttiR Material Proteetee Utleer Fee. R. Critfl:. P. 6(e)

Response to Question II, Part (b)

I recall that in the months leading up to the election there was considerable media reporting about
the possible hacking and release of campaign-related in formation and there was a lot of talk about
this matter. At the time, I was generally aware of these media reports and may have discussed these
issues with my campaign staff or others, but at this point in time - more than two years later - I
have no recollection of any particular conversation, when it occurred, or who the participants were.

Response to Question II, Part (c)

I do not recall being aware during the campaign of any communications between the individuals
named in Question ll (c) and anyone I understood to be a representative of WikiLeaks or any of
the other individuals or entities referred to in the question.
Response to Question II, Part (d)

I made the statement quoted in Question II (d) in jest and sarcastically, as was apparent to any
objective observer. The context of the statement is evident in the full reading or viewing of the
July 27, 2016 press conference, and I refer you to the publicly available transcript and video of
that press conference. I do not recall having any discussion about the substance of the statement in
advance of the press conference. l do not recall being told during the campaign of any efforts by
Russia to infiltrate or hack the computer systems or email accounts of Hillary Clinton or her
campaign prior to them becoming the subject of media reporting and I have no recollection of any
particular conversation in that regard.
Response to Question II, Part (e)

I was in Trump Tower in New York City on October 7, 2016. I have no recollection of being told
that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess emails related to John Podesta before the release of
Mr. Podesta's emails was reported by the media. Likewise, I have no recollection of being told
that Roger Stone. anyone acting as an intermediary for Roger Stone, or anyone associated with my
campaign had communicated with WikiLeaks on October 7, 2016.

Response to Question U, Part (1)

I do not recall being told during the campaign that Roger Stone or anyone associated with my
campaign had discussions with any of the entities named in the question regarding the content or
timing of release of hacked emails.
Response to Question II, Part (g)

I spoke by telephone with Roger Stone from time to time during the campaign. l have no
recollection of the specifics of any conversations I had with Mr. Stone between June I, 2016 and
13

C-18

