U.S. Department of Justice
frtt:af1'1e)Wark Preth1et // May Catttaitt Material Prateetecl Uttcler Feel. R. Critfl. P. 6(e)
1

circumstances, it doesn't necessarily mean that the two are connected. But it is a very serious
matter. .. that type of allegation is very serious, as it's taken very seriously by us." 181
After the U.S. intelligence community publicly announced its assessment that Russia was
behind the hacking operation, Assange continued to deny that the Clinton materials released by
WikiLeaks had come from Russian hacking. According to media reports, Assange told a U.S.
congressman that the DNC hack was an "inside job," and purported to have "physical proof'' that
Russians did not give materials to Assange. 182
C. Additional GRU Cyber Operations

While releasing the stolen emails and documents through DCLeaks , Guccifer 2.0, and
WikiLeaks, GRU officers continued to target and hack victims linked to the Democratic campaign
and, eventually , to target entities responsible for election administration in several states.

I. Summer and Fall 2016 Operations Targeting Democrat-Linked Victims
On July 27, 2016, Unit 26165 targeted email accounts connected to candidate Clinton's
personal office
. Earlier that day, candidate Trump made public statements that
included the following: "Russia , if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails
that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press." 183 The "30,000
emails" were apparently a reference to emails described in media accounts as having been stored
on a personal server that candidate Clinton had used while serving as Secretary of State.
Within approximately five hours of Trump's statement, GRU officers targeted for the first
time Clinton's personal office. After candidate Trump's remarks, Unit 26165 created and sent
malicious links targeting 15 email accounts at the domain
including an email
account belonging to Clinton aide
The investigation did not find evidence of earlier
GRU attempts to compromise accounts hosted on this domain. It is unclear how the GRU was
able to identify these email accounts , which were not public. 184
Unit 26165 officers also hacked into a DNC account hosted on a cloud-computing service
On September 20, 2016, the GRU began to generate
function designed to allow users to produce backups of
copies of the DNC data
as "snapshots"). The GRU then stole those snapshots by moving
databases (referred to

181

See Assange: "Murdered DNC Staffer Was 'Potential' WikiLeaks Source," Fox News (Aug. 25,
2016)(containing video of Assange interview by Megyn Kelly).
182

M. Raju & Z. Cohen , A GOP Congressman's Lonely Quest Defending Julian Assange, CNN
(May 23, 2018).
183

"Donald Trump on Russian & Missing Hillary Clinton Emails ," YouTube Channel C-SPAN ,
Posted 7/27/16 , available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3kxG8uJUsWU
(starting at 0:41).

49

