U.S. Department of Justice
At:t:offl:ey
Work Proattet // May CoHtaiHMaterial Proteetea Uttaer Fea. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

investigation for obstruction of justice. The sequence of those events raises an inference that after
seeking to terminate the Special Counsel, the President sought to exclude his and his campaign ' s
conduct from the investigation ' s scope. The President raised the matter with Lewandowski again
on July 19, 2017, just days after emails and information about the June 9, 2016 meeting between
Russians and senior campaign officials had been publicly disclosed, generating substantial media
coverage and investigative interest.
The manner in which the President acted provides additional evidence of his intent. Rather
than rely on official channels, the President met with Lewandowski alone in the Oval Office . The
President selected a loyal "devotee " outside the White House to deliver the message, supporting
an inference that he was working outside White House channels, including McGahn, who had
previously resisted contacting the Department of Justice about the Special Counsel. The President
also did not contact the Acting Attorney General, who had just testified publicly that there was no
cause to remove the Special Counsel. Instead, the President tried to use Sessions to restrict and
redirect the Special Counsel 's investigation when Sessions was recused and could not properly
take any action on it.
The July 19, 2017 events provide further evidence of the President ' s intent. The President
followed up with Lewandowski in a separate one-on-one meeting one month after he first dictated
the message for Sessions , demonstrating he still sought to pursue the request. And just hours after
Lewandowski assured the President that the message would soon be delivered to Sessions, the
President gave an unplanned interview to the New York Times in which he publicly attacked
Sessions and raised questions about his job security. Four days later, on July 22, 2017 , the
President directed Priebus to obtain Sessions's resignation. That evidence could raise an inference
that the President wanted Sessions to realize that his job might be on the line as he evaluated
whether to comply with the President's direction that Sessions publicly announce that,
notwithstanding his recusal, he was going to confine the Special Counsel's investigation to future
election interference .

G.

The President's Efforts to Prevent Disclosure of Emails About the June 9, 2016
Meeting Behveen Russians and Senior Campaign Officials
Overview

By June 2017, the President became aware of emails setting up the June 9, 2016 meeting
between senior campaign officials and Russians who offered derogatory information on Hillary
Clinton as "part of Russia and its government's support for Mr. Trump." On multiple occasions
in late June and early July 2017, the President directed aides not to publicly disclose the emails,
and he then dictated a statement about the meeting to be issued by Donald Trump Jr. describing
the meeting as about adoption.

Evidence
I. The President Learns About the Existence of Emails Concerning the June 9,
2016 Trump Tower Meeting
Tn mid-June 2017- the same week that the President first asked Lewandowski to pass a
message to Sessions-senior Administration officials became aware of emails exchanged during

98

