U.S. Department of Justice
AftorHey Werk Predttet // May CeHtaiH Material Proteeted UHcler Fed . R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

INTRODUCTION TO VOLUME

II

This report is submitted to the Attorney General pursuant to 28 C.F .R. § 600.8(c), which
states that, "[a]t the conclusion of the Special Counsel's work , he ... shall provide the Attorney
General a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions [the Special
Counsel] reached ."
Beginning in 2017 , the President of the United States took a variety of actions towards the
ongoing FBI investigation into Russia 's interference in the 2016 presidential election and related
matters that raised questions about whether he had obstructed justice. The Order appointing the
Special Counsel gave this Office jurisdiction to investigate matters that arose directly from the
FBI's Russia investigation, including whether the President had obstructed justice in connection
with Russia-related investigations. The Special Counsel's jurisdiction also covered potentially
obstructive acts related to the Special Counsel 's investigation itself. This Volume of our report
summarizes our obstruction-of-justice investigation of the President.
We first describe the considerations that guided our obstruction-of-justice
and then provide an overview of this Volume:

investigation,

First, a traditional prosecution or declination decision entails a binary determination to
initiate or decline a prosecution, but we determined not to make a traditional prosecutorial
judgment. The Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) has issued an opinion finding that "the indictment
or criminal prosecution of a sitting President would impermissibly undermine the capacity of the
executive branch to perform its constitutionally assigned functions " in violation of "the
constitutional separation of powers." 1 Given the role of the Special Counsel as an attorney in the
Department of Justice and the framework of the Special Counsel regulations, see 28 U.S.C. § 515;
28 C.F.R. § 600.7(a), this Office accepted OLC ' s legal conclusion for the purpose of exercising
prosecutorialjurisdiction.
And apart from OLC's constitutional view, we recognized that a federal
criminal accusation against a sitting President would place burdens on the President's capacity to
govern and potentially preempt constitutional processes for addressing presidential misconduct. 2
Second, while the OLC opinion concludes that a sitting President may not be prosecuted ,
it recognizes that a criminal investigation during the President's term is permissible. 3 The OLC
opinion also recognizes that a President does not have immunity after he leaves office. 4 And if
individuals other than the President committed an obstruction offense, they may be prosecuted at
this time. Given those considerations, the facts known to us, and the strong public interest in
1

A Sitting President's Amenability to Indictment and Criminal Prosecution, 24 Op. O.L.C. 222,
222, 260 (2000) (OLC Op.).
2

See U.S. CONST. Art. I § 2, cl. 5; § 3, cl. 6; cf OLC Op. at 257-258 (discussing relationship
between impeachment and criminal prosecution of a sitting President).
3

OLC Op. at 257 n.36 ("A grand jury could continue to gather evidence throughout the period of
immunity").
4

OLC Op. at 255 ("Recognizing an immunity from prosecution for a sitting President would not
preclude such prosecution once the President's term is over or he is otherwise removed from office by
resignation or impeachment").

