U.S. Department of Justice
Attonrny Work ProElttet// Ma)" C0Htait1Material ProteeteEIUHElerFeEI.R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

APPENDIX B: GLOSSARY

The following glossary contains names and brief descriptions of individuals and entities
referenced in the two volumes of this report. It is not intended to be comprehensive and is intended
only to assist a reader in the reading the rest of the report.
Referenced Persons
Agalarov, Aras

Russian real-estate developer (owner of the Crocus Group); met Donald
Trump in connection with the Miss Universe pageant and helped arrange
the June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump Tower between Natalia Veselnitskaya
and Trump Campaign officials.

Agalarov, Emin

Performer, executive vice president of Crocus Group, and son of Aras
Agalarov; helped arrange the June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump Tower
between Natalia Veselnitskaya and Trump Campaign officials.

Akhmetov, Rinat

Former member in the Ukrainian parliament who hired Paul Manafort to
conduct work for Ukrainian political patty, the Party of Regions.

Akhmetshin, Rinat

U.S. lobbyist and associate of Natalia Veselnitskaya who attended the
June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump Tower between Veselnitskaya and Trump
Campaign officials.

Aslanov,
Dzheykhun (Jay)

Head of U.S. department of the Internet Research Agency, which
engaged in an "active measures" social media campaign to interfere in
the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

Assange, Julian

Founder of WikiLeaks, which in 2016 posted on the internet documents
stolen from entities and individuals affiliated with the Democratic Party.

Aven, Petr

Chairman of the board of Alfa-Bank who attempted outreach to the
Presidential Transition Team in connection with anticipated post-election
sanctions.

Bannon, Stephen
(Steve)

White House chief strategist and senior counselor to President Trump
(Jan. 2017-Aug.2017); chief executive of the Trump Campaign.

Baranov, Andrey

Director of investor relations at Russian state-owned oil company,
Rosneft, and associate of Carter Page.

Berkowitz, Avi

Assistant to Jared Kushner.

Boente, Dana

Acting Attorney General (Jan. 2017 - Feb. 2017); Acting Deputy
Attorney General (Feb. 2017 - Apr. 2017).

Bogacheva, Anna

Internet Research Agency employee who worked on "active measures"
social media campaign to interfere in in the 2016 U.S. presidential
election; traveled to the United States under false pretenses in 2014.

Bossert, Thomas
(Tom)

Former homeland security advisor to the President who also served as a
senior official on the Presidential Transition Team.

B-1

