U.S. Department of Justice
At:taf'Ae;
· Waf'kPrmittet// May CaAtaiAMaterialPrateeteelUAelef'Peel. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

have the Special Counsel removed in June 2017 and that McGahn had threatened to resign rather
than carry out the order. The President reacted to the news stories by directing White House
officials to tell McGahn to dispute the story and create a record stating he had not been ordered to
have the Special Counsel removed. McGahn told those officials that the med ia reports were
accurate in stating that the President had directed McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed.
The President then met with McGahn in the Oval Office and again pressured him to deny the
reports . In the same meeting, the President also asked McGahn why he had told the Special
Counsel about the President 's effort to remove the Special Counsel and why McGahn took notes
of his conversations with the President. McGahn refused to back away from what he remembered
happening and perceived the President to be testing his mettle.

Conduct towards Flynn, Manafort,litilll
. After Flynn withdrew from a joint defense
agreement with the President and began cooperating with the government, the President's personal
counsel left a message for Flynn's attorneys reminding them of the President's warm feelings
towards Flynn , which he said "still remains ," and asking for a "heads up" if Flynn knew
"information that implicates the President. " When Flynn 's counsel reiterated that Flynn could no
longer share information pursuant to a joint defense agreement, the President's personal counsel
said he would make sure that the President knew that Flynn's actions reflected "hostility" towards
the President. During Manafort ' s prosecution and when the jury in his criminal . trial was
deliberating , the President praised Manafort in public, said that Manafort was being treated
unfairly, and declined to rule out a pardon . After Manafort was convicted, the President called
Manafort "a brave man" for refusin to "break" and said that "fli in " "almost ou ht to be

Conduct involving Michael Cohen. The President 's conduct towards Michael Cohen, a
former Trump Organization executive, changed from praise for Cohen when he falsely minimized
the President's involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project, to castigation of Cohen when
he became a cooperating witness. From September 2015 to June 2016, Cohen had pursued the
Trump Tower Moscow project on behalf of the Trump Organization and had briefed candidate
Trump on the project numerous times, including discussing whether Trump should travel to Russia
to advance the deal. In 2017, Cohen provided false testimony to Congress about the project ,
including stating that he had only briefed Trump on the project three times and never discussed
travel to Russia with him, in an effort to adhere to a "party line" that Cohen said was developed to
minimize the President's connections to Russia . While preparing for his congressional testimony ,
Cohen had extensive discussions with the President's personal counsel , who , according to Cohen,
said that Cohen should "stay on message " and not contradict the President. After the FBI searched
Cohen's home and office in April 2018, the President publicly asserted that Cohen would not
"flip," contacted him directly to tell him to "stay strong," and privately passed messages of support
to him . Cohen also discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if
he stayed on message he would be taken care of. But after Cohen began cooperating with the
government in the summer of 2018, the President publicly criticized him, called him a "rat," and
suggested that his family members had committed crimes.

6

