U.S. Department of Justice
AttorAey '.VorlcProettet II May COf1taiAMaterial Proteetee UReer Fee . R. Crim . P. 6(e)

appointment of a Spec ial Counsel. 380 Boente did not recall that aspect of his conversation with
McGahn , but did recall telling McGahn that the direct outreaches from the President to Corney
were a problem .381 Boente recalled that McGahn agreed and said he would do what he could to
address that issue .382

Analysis
In analyzing the President's reaction to Sessions ' s recusal and the requests he made to
Coats, Pompeo , Rogers , and Corney, the following evidence is relevant to the elements of
obstruction of justice:
a.
Obstructive act. The evidence shows that, after Corney's March 20, 2017
testimony , the President repeatedly reached out to intelligence agency leaders to discuss the FBT's
investigation . But witnesses had different recollections of the precise content of those outreaches.
Some ODNI officials recalled that Coats told them immediately after the March 22 Oval Office
meeting that the President asked Coats to intervene with Corney and "stop" the investigation . But
the first-hand witnesses to the encounter remember the conversation differently. Pompeo had no
memory of the specific meeting, but generally recalled the President urging officials to get the
word out that the President had not done anything wrong related to Russia. Coats recalled that the
President asked that Coats state publicly that no link existed between the President and Russia, but
did not ask him to speak with Corney or to help end the investigation. The other outreaches by the
President during this period were similar in nature: The President asked Rogers if he could do
anything to refute the stories linking the President to Russia , and the President asked Corney to
make a public statement that would " lift the cloud" of the ongoing investigation by making clear
that the President was not personally under investigation. These requests, while significant enough
that Rogers thought it important to document the encounter in a written memorandum, were not
interpreted by the officials who received them as directives to improperly interfere with the
investigation.
b.
Nexus to a proceeding . At the time of the President ' s outreaches to leaders of the
intelligence agencies in late March and early April 2017, the FBI's Russia investigation did not
yet involve grand jury proceedings. The outreaches , however, came after and were in response to
Corney ' s March 20, 2017 announcement that the FBT, as a part of its counterintelligence mission,
was conducting an investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.
Corney testified that the investigation included any links or coordination with Trump campaign
officials and would "include an assessment of whether any crimes were committed. "
c.
Intent. As described above, the evidence does not establish that the President asked
or directed intelligence agency leaders to stop or interfere with the FBI's Russia investigationand the President affirmatively told Corney that if "some satellite" was involved in Russian
election interference "it would be good to find that out. " But the President's intent in trying to
prevent Sessions ' s recusal, and in reaching out to Coats, Pompeo , Rogers, and Corney following
380

McGahn 12/12/ 17 302, at 9-10.

381

Boente 1/31/ 18 302, at 7; McGahn 12/12/17 302, at 9.

382

Boente 1/31/ 18 302, at 7.
60

