U.S. Department of Just ice
AMerRe)' Werk Pretittet // May CeRtaiR Material Proteetee UReer Feti. R. Crim . P. 6(e)

Analysis
In analyzing the President's conduct towards Flynn, Manafort ,
evidence is relevant to the elements of obstruct ion of justice:

litia , the following

a.
Obstructive act. The President's actions towards witnesses in the Special Counsel's
investigation would qualify as obstructive if they had the natural tendency to prevent particular
witnesses from testifying truthfull y, or otherwise would have the probable effect of influencing,
delaying, or preventing their testimony to law enforcement.
With regard to Flynn , the President sent private and public messages to Flynn encouraging
him to stay strong and conveying that the President still cared about him before he began to
cooperate with the government. When Flynn 's attorneys withdrew him from a joint defense
agreement with the President, signaling that Flynn was potentially cooperating with the
government, the President's personal counsel initially reminded Flynn's counsel of the President's
warm feelings towards Flynn and said "that still remains." But when Flynn's counsel reiterated
that Flynn could no longer share information under a joint defense agreement, the President's
personal counsel stated that the decision would be interpreted as reflecting Flynn's hostility
towards the President. That sequence of events could have had the potential to affect Flynn's
decision to cooperate, as well as the extent of that cooperation. Because of privilege issues,
however, we could not determine whether the President was personally involved in or knew about
the specific message his counsel delivered to Flynn's counsel.
With respect to Manafort, there is evidence that the President ' s actions had the potential to
influence Manafort ' s decision whether to cooperate with the government. The President and his
personal counsel made repeated statements suggesting that a pardon was a possibility for Mana fort,
wh ile also making it clear that the President did not want Manafort to "flip" and cooperate with
the government. On June 15, 2018, the day the judge presiding over Manafort's D.C. case was
considering whether to revoke his bail, the President said that he "felt badly" for Manafort and
stated, "I think a lot of it is very unfair." And when asked about a pardon for Manafort , the
President said, "I do want to see people treated fairly . That 's what it's all about." Later that day,
after Manafort 's bail was revoked, t_he President called it a "tough sentence" that was "Very
unfair! " Two days later, the President's personal counsel stated that individuals involved in the
Special Counsel ' s investigation could receive a pardon "if in fact the [P]resident and his advisors
... come to the conclusion that you have been treated unfairly" - using language that paralleled
how the President had already described the treatment of Mana fort. Those statements , combined
with the President's commendation ofManafort for being a "brave man" who "refused to 'break ' ,"
suggested that a pardon was a more likely possibility if Manafort continued not to cooperate with
the government. And while Manafort eventually pleaded guilty pursuant to a cooperation
agreement, he was found to have vio lated the agreement by lying to investigators.
The President's public statements during the Manafort trial, including during jury
deliberations , also had the potential to influence the trial jury. On the second day of trial , for
example , the President called the prosecution a "terrible situation" and a "hoax" that "conti nue s to
stain our country" and referred to Manafort as a "Reagan/Dole darling" who was "serving solitary
confinement " even though he was "co nvicted of nothing." Those statements were widely picked
up by the press. While jurors were instructed not to watch or read news stories about the case and
131

