U.S. Department of Justice
AEterHe)"'Nerlc Predttet // May CeHtaiHMa-terialPreteeted URder Fed. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

to avoid: a criminal investigat ion into his own conduct that was the subject of widespread media
attention. The evidence indicates that news of the obstruction investigation prompted the President
to call McGahn and seek to have the Specia l Counsel removed. By mid-June, the Department of
Justice had already cleared the Special Counsel's service and the President's advisors had told him
that the claimed conflicts of interest were "silly" and did not provide a basis to remove the Special
Counsel. On June 13, 2017, the Acting Attorney General testified before Congress that no good
cause for removing the Special Counsel existed, and the President dictated a press statement to
Sanders saying he had no intention of firing the Special Counsel. But the next day, the media
reported that the President was under investigation for obstruction of justice and the Special
Counsel was interviewing witnesses about events related to possible obstruction - spurring the
President to write critical tweets about the Special Counsel's investigation. The Pres ident called
McGahn at home that night and then called him on Saturday from Camp David. The evidence
accordingly indicates that news that an obstruction investigation had been opened is what led the
President to cal l McGahn to have the Special Counsel terminated.
There also is evidence that the President knew that he should not have made those calls to
McGahn. The President made the calls to McGahn after McGahn had specifically told the
President that the White House Counsel's Office-and McGahn himself-could not be involved
in pressing conflicts claims and that the President should consult with his personal counsel if he
wished to raise conflicts. Instead ofrelying on his personal counsel to submit the conflicts claims ,
the President sought to use his official powers to remove the Special Counsel. And after the media
reported on the President's actions, he denied that he ever ordered McGahn to have the Special
Counsel terminated and made repeated efforts to have McGahn deny the story, as discussed in
Volume II, Section II.I, infra. Those denials are contrary to the evidence and suggest the
President's awareness that the direction to McGahn could be seen as improper.

F.

The President's Efforts to Curtail the Special Counsel Investigation
Overview

Two days after the President directed McGahn to have the Specia l Counse l removed, the
President made another attempt to affect the course of the Russia investigation. On June 19, 2017 ,
the President met one-on-one with Corey Lewandowski in the Oval Office and dictated a message
to be delivered to Attorney General Sessions that would have had the effect of limiting the Russia
investigation to future election interference only. One month later, the President met again with
Lewandowski and followed up on the request to have Sessions limit the scope of the Russia
investigation. Lewandowski told the President the message would be delivered soon. Hours later,
the President publicly criticized Sessions in an unplanned press interview , raising questions about
Sessions's job security .
1. The President Asks Corey Lewandowski to Deliver a Message to Sessions to
Curtail the Special Counsel Investigation
On June 19, 2017, two days after the President directed McGahn to have the Special
Counsel removed , the President met one-on-one in the Oval Office with his former campaign

90

