U.S. Department of Justice
Atten·fl:ey'.\'erk Preettet // Ma,· CeHtaiH Material Preteetee UAeer Fee. R. Critn:. P. 6(e)

Those contacts included matters pertaining to the criminal charges brought by the Office, 959 and
the Ukraine peace plan. In early 2018 , Manafort retained his longtime polling firm to craft a draft
poll in Ukraine, sent the pollsters a three-page primer on the plan sent by Kilimnik, and worked
with Kilimnik to formulate the polling questions. 960 The primer sent to the pollsters specifically
called for the United States and President Trump to support the Autonomous Republic of Donbas
with Yanukovych as Prime Minister, 961 a'nd a series of questions in the draft poll asked for opinions
on Yanukovych's role in resolving the conflict in Donbas. 962 (The poll was not solely about
Donbas; it also sought participants' views on leaders apart from Yanukovych as they pertained to
the 2019 Ukraine presidential election.)
The Office has not uncovered evidence that Manafort brought the Ukraine peace plan to
the attention of the Trump Campaign or the Trump Administration. Kilimnik continued his efforts
to promote the peace plan to the Executive Branch (e.g., U.S. Department of State) into the summer
of 2018 .963

B. Post-Election and Transition-Period Contacts
Trump was elected President on November 8, 2016. Beginning immediately after the
election, individuals connected to the Russian government started contacting officials on the
Trump Campaign and Transition Team through multiple channels-sometimes through Russian
Ambassador Kislyak and at other times through individuals who sought reliable contacts through
U.S. persons not formally tied to the Campaign or Transition Team. The most senior levels of the
Russian government encouraged these efforts. The investigation did not establish that these efforts
reflected or constituted coordination between the Trump Campaign and Russia in its electioninterference activities.
1. Immediate Post-Election Activity
As soon as n ews broke that Trump had been elected President, Russian government
officials and prominent Russian businessmen began trying to make inroads into the new
Administration. They appeared not to have pree xisting contacts and struggled to connect with
senior officials around the President -Elect. As explained below , those efforts entailed both official
contact through the Russian Embassy in the United States and outreaches-sanctioned
at high
levels of the Russian government-through business rather than political contacts.

959

Mana/art (D.D.C.) Gov't Opp . to Mot. to Modify, at 2; Superseding Indictment
United States v. Paul J Manafort, Jr., l:l 7-cr-201 (D.D.C. June 8, 2018), Doc. 318.
960

,r,r48-51,

2/12/18 Email, Fabrizio to Manafort & Ward; 2/16/18 Email, Fabrizio to Manafort; 2/19/18
Email , Fabrizio to Ward; 2/21/18 Email, Manafort to Ward & Fabrizio.
961

2/21/18 Email, Manafort to Ward & Fabrizio (7:16:49 a.m.) (attachment).

962

3/9/18 Email , Ward to Manafort & Fabrizio (attachment).

144

