U.S. Department of Justice
Attofttey Work Proclttet // May Cotttaitt Material Proteetecl Uttcler Fee. R . Cfiffl. P. 6(e)

was pursuing the proposed Trump Tower Moscow project through June 2016 and candidate Trump
was repeatedly briefed on the ro ress of those efforts. 498 In addition, some witnesses said that
s aware that
·
·
.
at a time when public reports stated that Russian intelligence officials were behind the
499
hacks, and that Trump privately sought information about future WikiLeaks releases.
More
broadly , multiple witne sses described the President ' s preoccupation with press coverage of the
Russia investigation and his persistent concern that it raised questions about the legitimacy of his
election. 500

iii

Finally, the President and White House aides initially advanced a pretextual reason to the
press and the public for Corney's termination.
In the immediate aft ermath of the firing , the
Presid ent dictated a press statement suggesting that he had acted bas ed on the DOJ
recommendations, and White House press officials repeated that story. But the President had
decided to fire Corney before the White House solicited those recommendations.
Although the
President ultimately acknowledged that he was going to fire Corney regardless of the Department
of Justice ' s recommendations , he did so only after DOJ officials made clear to him that they would
resist the White House's suggestion that they had prompted the process that led to Corney ' s
termination . The initial reliance on a pretextual justification could support an inference that the
President had concerns about providing the real reason for the firing , although th e evidence does
not resolve wh ether those concerns were personal , political, or both.

E.

The President's Efforts to Remove the Special Counsel
Overview

The Acting Attorn ey General appointed a Special Counsel on May 17, 2017 , prompting
the President to state that it was the end of his presidency and that Attorne y General Sessions had
failed to protect him and should resign. Sessions submitted his resignation , which the President
ultimately did not accept. The President told senior advisors that the Special Counsel had conflicts
of interest , but they respond ed that those claims were "ridiculous" and posed no obstacle to the
Special Counsel ' s service. Department of Justice ethics officials similarl y cleared the Special
Counsel ' s service . On June 14, 2017 , the press reported that the President was being personally
investigated for obstruction of justic e and the President responded with a series of tweets
498

See Volume II, Section TT.K.l, infra.

499

See Volume l, Section III.D.1, supra.

soo In addition to whether the President had a motive related to Russia-relat ed matters that an FBI
investigation could uncover, we considered whether the President's intent in firing Corney was connected
to other conduct that could come to light as a result of the FBT' s Russian-interference investigation . In
particular, Michael Cohen was a potential subject of investigation because of his pursuit of the Trump
Tower Moscow project and involvement in other activities . And facts uncovered in the Russia
investigation , which our Office referred to the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New
York, ultimately led to the conviction of Cohen in the Southern District of New York for campaign-finance
offenses related to payments he said he made at the direction of the President. See Volume II, Section
II.K.5 , infra. The investigation, however, did not establish that when the President fired Corney, he was
considering the possibility that the FBT's investigation would uncover these payments or that the President 's
intent in firing Corney was othe1wise connected to a concern about these matters coming to light.

77

