U.S. Department of Justice
At:terRey Werk Preclttet // May CeRtaiR Material Preteetecl UHcler Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

i. What consideration did you give to lifting sanctions and/or recognizing
Russia's annexation of Crimea if you were elected? Describe who you
spoke with about this topic, when, the substance of the discussion(s).
V.

Contacts with Russiaand Russia-Related Issues During the Transition

a. Were you asked to attend the World Chess Championship gala on November 10,
2016? If yes, who asked you to attend, when were you asked, and what were you
told about about why your presence was requested?
i. Did you attend any part of the event? If yes, describe any interactions you
had with any Russiansor representatives of the Russian government at the
event.
b. Following the Obama Administration's imposition of sanctions on Russia iri
December 2016 ("Russia sanctions"), did you discuss with Lieutenant General
(LTG) Michael Flynn, K.T. McFarland, Steve Bannon, Reince Priebus, Jared Kushner,
Erik Prince, or anyone else associated with the transition what should be
communicated to the Russian government regarding the sanctions? If yes,
describe who you spoke with about this issue, when, and the substance of the
d iscussion(s).
c. On December 29 and December 31, 2016, LTG Flynn had conversations with
Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak about the Russia sanctions and Russia's
response to the Russia sanctions.
i. Did you direct or suggest that LTGFlynn have discussions with anyone from
the Russian government about the Russia sanctions?
ii. Were you told in advance of LTG Flynn's December 29, 2016 conversation
that he was going to be speaking with Ambassador Kislyak? If yes, describe
who told you this information, when, and what you were told. If no, when
and from whom did you learn of LTG Flynn's December 29, 2016
conversation with Ambassador Kislyak?
iii. When did you learn of LTG Flynn and Ambassador Kislyak's call on
December 31, 2016? Who told you and what were you told?
iv. When did you learn that sanctions were discussed in the December 29 and
December 31, 2016 calls between LTG Flynn and Ambassador Kislyak?
Who told you and what were you told?
d. At any time between December 31, 2016, and January 20, 2017, did anyone tell
you or suggest to you that Russia's decision not to impose reciprocal sanctions
was attributable in any way to LTG Flynn's communications with Ambassador
Kislyak? If yes, identify who provided you with this information, when, and the
substance of what you were told.

C-9

