U.S. Department of Justice
Attertte:,· Werk Prnattet // Ma:yCetttaiH Material Preteetea Uttaer Fea. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

II. FA CTUAL RESULTS OF

THE OBSTRUCTION INVESTIGATION

This section of the report details the evidence we obtained. We first provide an overview
of how Russia became an issue in the 2016 presidential campaign , and how candidate Trump
responded. We then tum to the key events that we investigated: the President's conduct concerning
the FBI investigation of Michael Flynn; the President ' s reaction to public confirmation of the FBl ' s
Russia investigation ; events leading up to and surrounding the termination of FBI Director Corney ;
efforts to terminate the Special Counsel ; efforts to curtail the scope of the Special Counsel 's
investigation; efforts to prevent disclosur e of information about the June 9, 2016 Trump Tower
meeting between Russians and senior campaign officials; efforts to have the Attorney General
unrecuse; and conduct towards McGahn , Cohen , and other witnesses.
We summarize the evidence we found and then analyze it by reference to the three statutory
obstruction-of-justice elements: obstructive act , nexus to a proceeding , and intent. We focus on
elements becau se, by regulation , the Special Counsel has "jurisdiction ... to investigate ... federal
crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel 's
investigation , such as perjury, obstruction of justice , destruction of evidence , and intimidation of
witn esses. " 28 C.F.R . § 600.4(a). Consistent with our jurisdiction to investigate federal
obstruction crimes, we gathered evidence that is relevant to the el ements of those crimes and
analyzed them within an elements framework-while
refraining from reaching ultimate
conclusions about whether crimes were committed , for the reasons explained above . This section
also does not address legal and constitutional defenses raised by counsel for the President ; those
defenses are analyzed in Volume II, Section ITT, infra.

A.

The Campaign 's Response to Reports About Russian Support for Trump

During the 2016 campaign , the media raised questions about a possible connection between
the Trump Campaign and Russia. 7 The questions intensified after WikiLeaks released politically
damaging Democratic Party emails that were reported to have been hacked by Russia . Trump
responded to questions about possible connections to Russia by denying any business involvement
in Russia-even though the Trump Organization had pursued a business project in Russia as late
as June 2016. Trump also expressed skepticism that Russia had hacked the emails at the same
time as he and other Campaign advisors privately sought information
about any
further planned WikiLeaks releases. After the el ection , when questions persisted about possible
links between Russia and the Trump Campaign, the President-Elect continued to deny any
connections to Russia and privately expressed concerns that reports of Russian election
interference might lead the public to question the legitimacy of his election .8

7

This section summarizes and cites various news stories not for the truth of the information
contained in the stories, but rather to place candidate Trump's response to those stories in context. Volume
I of this report analyzes the underlying facts of several relevant events that were reported on by the media
during the campaign.
8

As discussed in Volume I, while the investigation identified numerous links between individuals
with ties to the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence
was not sufficient to charge that any member of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with
representatives ofthe Russian government to interfere in the 2016 election.

15

