U.S. Department of Justice
AlterHe:,· '.\'erk Preettet // May CeHtaiH Material Preteetee UHeer Fee. R. Criffl. P . 6(e)

e. On October 7, 2016, emails hacked from the account of John Podesta were
released by Wikileaks.
· i. Where were you on October 7, 2016?
ii. Were you told at any time in advance of, or on the day of, the October 7
release that Wikileaks possessed or might possess emails related to John
Podesta? If yes, describe who told you this, when, and what you were
told.
iii. Are you aware of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including
Roger Stone, reaching out to Wikileaks, either directly or through an
intermediary, on or about October 7, 2016? If yes, identify the person and
describe the substance of the conversations or contacts.
f.

Were you told of anyone associated with you or your campaign, including Roger
Stone, having any discussions, directly or indirectly, with Wikileaks, Guccifer 2.0,
or DCLeaksregarding the content or timing of release of hacked emails? If yes,
describe who had such contacts, how you became aware of the contacts, when
you became aware of the contacts, and the substance of the contacts.

g. From June 1, 2016 through the end of the campaign, how frequently did you
communicate with Roger Stone? Describe the nature of your communication(s)
with Mr. Stone.
i. During that time period, what efforts did Mr. Stone tell you he was making
to assist your campaign, and what requests, if any, did you make of Mr.
Stone?
ii. Did Mr. Stone ever discuss Wikileaks with you or, as far as you were aware,
with anyone else associated with the campaign? If yes, describe what you
were told, from whom, and when.
iii. Did Mr. Stone at any time inform you about contacts he had with Wikileaks
or any intermediary of Wikileaks, or about forthcoming releases of
information? If yes, describe what Stone told you and when.
h. Did you have any discussions prior to January 20, 2017, regarding a potential
pardon or other action to benefit Julian Assange? If yes, describe who you had
the discussion(s) with, when, and the content of the discussion(s).
i.

Were you aware of any efforts by foreign individuals or companies, including those
in Russia,to assist your campaign through the use of social media postings or the
organization of rallies? If yes, identify who you discussed such assistance with,
when, and the content of the discussion(s).

C-6

