U.S. Department of Justice

Alton~ey Work Proelttet// May CoHtaiRMtl'terial ProteeteelUHelerFee . R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Oganov, Georgiy

Advisor to Oleg Deripaska and a board member of investment company
Basic E lement. He met with Paul Manafort in Spain in early 2017.

Oknyansky, Henry
(a/k/a Henry
Greenberg)

Florida-based Rus sian individual who claimed to have derogatory
information pertaining to Hillary Clinton. He met with Roger Stone in
May 2016.

Page, Carter

Foreign policy advisor to the Trump Campaign who advocated proRussian views and made July 2016 and December 2016 visits to Moscow.

Papadopoulos,
George

Foreign policy advisor to the Trump Campaign who received information
from Joseph Mifsud that Russians had "dirt" in the form of thousands of
Clinton emails. He pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about his contact
with Mifsud.

Parscale, Bradley

Digital media director for the 2016 Trump Campaign .

Patten, William
(Sam) Jr.

Lobbyist and business partner of Konstantin Kilimnik.

Peskov, Dmitry

Deputy chief of staff of and press secretary for the Russian presidential
administration.

Phares, Walid

Foreign policy advisor to the Trump Campaign and co-secretary general
of the Transatlantic Parliamentary Group on Counterterror ism (TAG).

Pinedo, Richard

U.S. person who pleaded guilty to a single -count information of identity
fraud.

Podesta, John Jr.

Clinton campaign chairman whose email account was hacked by the
GRU. WikiLeaks released his stolen emails during the 2016 campaign.

Podobnyy, Victor

Russian intelligence officer who interacted with Carter Page while
operat ing inside the United States ; later charged in 2015 with conspiring
to act as an unregistered agent of Russia .

Poliakova, Elena

Personal assistant to Dmitry Peskov who responded to Michael Cohen's
outreach about the Trump Tower Moscow project in January 2016.

Polonskaya, Olga

Russian national introduced to George Papadopoulos by Joseph Mifsud
as an individual with connections to Vladimir Putin.

Pompeo, Michael

U.S. Secretary of State; director of the Central Intelligence Agency (Jan.
2017 - Apr. 2018).

Porter, Robert

White House staff secretary (Jan. 2017 - Feb.2018).

Priebus, Reince

White House chief of staff (Jan. 2017 - July 2017); chair of the
Republican Nationa l Committee (Jan. 2011 -Jan. 2017).

Prigozhin, Yevgeniy

Head of Russian companies Concord -Catering and Concord Management
and Consu lting; supported and financed the Internet Research Agency,
which engaged in an "active measures" social media campa ign to
interfere in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

B-8

