U.S. Department of Justice

Aft:en1eyWerk Prncluet // May Cetttaifl Material Prnteetecl Uf!clerFecl. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Smith, Peter

Investment banker active in Republican politics who sought to obtain
Hillary Clinton emails during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign
period.

Spicer, Sean

White House press secretary and communications director (Jan. 2017 July 2017).

Stone, Roger

Tillerson, Rex

U.S. Secretary of State (Feb. 2017 - Mar. 2018) .

Timofeev, Ivan

Director of programs at the Russian International Affairs Council and
program director of the Valdai Discussion Club who communicated in
2016 with George Papadopoulo s, attempting to arrange a meeting
between the Russian government and the Trump Campaign.

Trump, Donald Jr.

President Trump's son; trustee and executive vice president of the Trump
Organization; helped arrange and attended the June 9, 2016 meeting at
Trump Tower between Natalia Veselnitskaya and Trump Campaign
officials.

Trump, Eric

President Trump 's son; trustee and executive vice president of the Trump
Organization.

Trump, lvanka

President Trump's daughter; advisor to the President
exec utive vice president of the Trump Organization.

Ushakov, Yuri
Viktorovich

Aide to Vladimir Putin and former Russian ambassador to the United
States; identified to the Presidential Tran sition Team as the proposed
channel to the Russian government.

Vaino, Anton

Chief of staff to Russian president Vladimir Putin .

Van der Zwaan,
Alexander

Former attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, LLP; worked
with Paul Manafort and Rick Gates.

Vargas, Catherine

Executive assistant to Jared Kushner.

Vasilchenko, Gleb

Internet Research Agency employee who engaged in an "activ e
measures " socia l media campaign to interfere in the 2016 U.S.
presidential election.

Veselnitskaya,
Natalia

Russian attorney who advocated for the repea l of the Magnitsky Act and
was the principal speaker at the June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump Tower
with Trump Campaign officials.

Weber, Shlomo

Rector of the New Econom ic School (NES) in Moscow who invited
Carter Page to speak at NES commencement in July 2016.

Yanukovych, Viktor

Former president of Ukraine who had worked with Paul Manafort.

B-10

and former

