U.S. Department of Justice

AMorHey'Nork Proeittet// May CoHtaiHMaterial Proteeteei UHeer Fee. R. Griff!:.P. 6(e)

voluntary basis when poss ible , and used legal process where appropriate . These investigative steps
allowed us to gather a substantial amount of evidence.
We also sought a voluntary interview with
discussion, the President declined to be interviewed.
During the course of our discussions ,
the President did agree to answer written questions on certain Russia-related topics, and he
provided us with answers. He did not similarly agree to provide written answers to questions on
obstruction topics or ques tions on events during the transition. Ultimately , while we believed that
we had the authority and legal justification to issue a grand jury subpoena to obtain the President 's
testimony , we chose not to do so. We made that decision in view of the substantial delay that such
an investigative step would likely produce at a late stage in our investigation . We also assessed
that based on the significant body of evidence we had already obtained of the President's actions
and his public and private statements describing or explaining those actions , we had sufficient
evidence to understand relevant events and to make certain assessments without the President 's
testimony . The Office's decision-making process on this issue is described in more detail in
Appendix C, infra, in a note that precedes the President's written responses.
In asses sing the evidence we obtain ed, we relied on common principles that apply in any
investigation. The issue of criminal intent is often inferred from circumstantial evidence. See,
e.g., United States v. Croteau, 819 F.3d 1293, 1305 (11th Cir. 2016) (" [G]uilty knowledge can
rarely be established by direct evidence .. . . Therefore , mens rea elements such as knowledge or
intent may be proved by circumstantial evidence .") (internal quotation marks omitted); United
States v. Robinson, 702 F.3d 22, 36 (2d Cir. 2012) ("The government's case rested on
circumstantial evidence, but the mens rea elem ents of knowledge and intent can often be proved
through circumstantial evidence and the reasonable inferenc es drawn therefrom.") (internal
quotation ma rks omitted). The principle that intent can be inferred from circumstantial evidence
is a necessity in criminal cases , given the right of a subject to assert his privilege against compelled
self-incr imination under the Fifth Amendment and therefor e decline to testify. Accordingly,
determinations on intent are frequently reached without the opportunity to interview an
investigatory subject.
Obstruction-of -justice cases are consist ent with this rule. See, e.g., Ed/ind , 887 F.3d at
174, 176 (relying on "s ignificant circumstantial evidence that [the defendant] was conscious of her
wrongdoing" in an obstruction case; "(b]ecause evid ence of intent will almost always be
circumstantial, a defendant may be found culpable where the reasonable and foreseeable
consequences of her acts are the obstruction of justice ") (internal quotation marks , ellipses , and
punctuation omitted); Quattrone, 441 F .3d at 173-174. Circumstantial eviden ce that illuminates
intent may include a pattern of potentially obstructive acts. Fed. R. Evid. 404(b) ("Evidence of a
crime, wrong , or other act ... may be admissible . .. [to] prov[ e] motive , opportunity , intent,
preparation , plan, knowledge, identity , absence of mistake , or lack of accident."); see, e.g., United
States v. Frankhauser, 80 F .3d 641, 648-650 ( I st Cir. 1996) ; United States v. Arnold, 773 F .2d
823, 832-834 (7th Cir. 1985); Cintolo, 818 F .2d at 1000 .
Credibility judgments may also be made based on objective facts and circumstantial
evidence. Standard jury instructions highlight a variety of factors that are often relevant in
13

