U.S. Department of Justice

AtaterHe~·
Wet1kPretlttet // May CeHtaiHMaterial Pt1eteetetlUHtler Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

V. PROSECUTION AND DECLINATION DECISIONS
The Appointment Order authorized the Special Counsel's Office "to prosecute federal
crimes arising from [its] investigation" of the matters assigned to it. In deciding whether to
exercise this prosecutorial authority, the Office has been guided by the Principles of Federal
Prosecution set forth in the Justice (formerly U.S. Attorney's) Manual. In particular , the Office
has evaluated whether the conduct of the individuals considered for prosecution constituted a
federal offense and whether admissible evidence would probably be sufficient to obtain and sustain
a conviction for such an offense . Justice Manual § 9-27.220 (2018). Where the answer to those
questions was yes, the Office further considered whether the prosecution would serve a substantial
federal interest, the individuals were subject to effective prosecution in another jurisdiction , and
there existed an adequate non -criminal alternative to prosecution. Id.
As explained below, those considerations led the Office to seek charges against two sets of
Russian nationals for their roles in er etratin the active-measures social media cam ai n and

similarly determined that the contacts between Campaign officials and Russia -linked individuals
either did not involve the commission of a federal crime or, in the case of campaign-finance
offen ses, that our evidence was not sufficient to obtain and sustain a criminal conviction. At the
same time, the Office concluded that the Principles of Federal Prosecution supported charging
certain individuals connected to the Campaign with making false statements or otherwise
obstructing this investigation or parallel congressional investigations.

A. Russian "Active Measures" Social Media Campaign
On February 16, 2018, a federal grand jury in the District of Columbia returned an
indictment charging 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities-including
the Internet
Research Agency (IRA) and Concord Management and Consulting LLC (Concord)-with
violating U.S . criminal laws in order to interfere with U.S. elections and political processes . 1276
The indictment charges all of the defendants with conspiracy to defraud the United States (Count
One) , three defendants with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and -bank fraud (Count Two) , and
five defendants with aggravated identity theft (Counts Three through Eight). Internet Research
Agency Indictment. Concord, which is one of the entities charged in the Count One conspiracy,
entered an appearance through U.S. counsel and moved to dismiss the charge on multiple grounds.
In orders and memorandum opinions issued on August 13 and November 15, 2018, the district
court denied Concord ' s motions to dismiss. United States v. Concord Management & Consulting
LLC, 347 F. Supp. 3d 38 (D.D.C. 2018). United States v. Concord Management & Consulting
LLC, 317 F. Supp. 3d 598 (D .D.C. 2018) . As of this writing, the prosecution of Concord remains
ongoing before the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia . The other defendants remain
at large.

1276

A more detailed explanation of the charging decision in this case is set forth in a separate
memorandum provided to the Acting Attorney General before the indictment.

174

