U.S. Department of Justice

AttorRe)' Work Proclttet// May Cof!taiRMate,•ialProteetecl URclerFecl. R. Criffi. P. 6(e)

Yates, Sally

Acting Attorney Genera l (Jan. 20, 2017- Jan. 30, 2017); Deputy
Attorney General (Jan. 10, 2015-Jan.30 , 2017) .

Yatsenko, Sergey

Deputy chief financial officer of Gazprom, a Russ ian state-owned energy
company, and associate of Carter Page.

Zakharova, Maria

Director of the Rus sian Ministry of Foreign Affair's Information and
Press Department who received notification of Carter Page 's speech in
July 2016 from Denis Klimentov .

Zayed al Nahyan,
Mohammed bin

Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and deputy supreme commander of the
United Arab Emirates (UAE) armed forces.

Entities and Organizations

Alfa-Bank

Ru ssia's largest commercia l bank, which is headed by Petr Aven.

Center for the National
Interest (CNI)

U.S.-based th ink tank with expert ise in and connections to Russia.
CNI' s publication , the National Interest, hosted cand idate Trump's
foreign policy speech in April 2016.

Concord

Umbrella term for Concord Management and Consu lting, LLC and
Concord Cateri n g, which are Russian companies controlled by
Yevge niy Prigozhin.

Crocus Group or
Crocus International

A Russian real-estate and property development company that, in
2013, hosted the Miss Universe Pageant , and from 2013 through 2014,
worked with the Trump Organization on a Trump Moscow project.

DCLeaks

Fictitious online persona operated by the GRU that released stole n
documents during the 20 I 6 U.S. presidential campaign period.

Democratic
Congressional
Campaign Committee

Political committee working to elect Democrats to the House of
Representatives; hacked by the GRU in April 2016 .

Democratic National
Committee

Formal governing body for the Democratic Party; hacked by the GRU
in Apri l 2016.

Duma

Lower House of the national legislature of the Rus sian Federation.

Gazprom

Russian oil and gas company majority-owned
government.

Global Energy Capita l,
LLC

Investment and management firm founded by Carter Page .

Global Partners in
Diplomacy

Event hosted in partner ship with the U.S. Department of State and the
Republican Nationa l Convention. In 2016 , Jeff Sessions and J .D.
Gordon delivered speeches at the event and interacted with Russian
Ambassad or Sergey Kislyak .

B-11

by the Russian

