U.S. Department of Justice
Atteffl:e,· Werk Precluet // Mity CefttaiH Material Preteetecl Utl:clerFecl. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Unit 26165 officers appear to have stolen thousands of emails and attachments , which were later
released by WikiLeaks in July 2016 .136

B. Dissemination of the Hacked Mate rials
The GRU 's operations extended beyond stealing materials, and included releasing
documents stolen from the Clinton Campaign and its supporters. The GRU carried out the
anonymous release through two fictitious online personas that it created-DCLeaks and Guccifer
2.0-and later through the organization WikiLeaks.
1. DCLeaks
The GRU began planning the releases at least as early as April 19, 2016, when Unit 26165
register ed the domain dcleaks .com through a service that anonymized the registrant. 137 Unit 26165
paid for the registration using a pool of bitcoin that it had mined. 138 The dcleaks.com landing page
pointed to different tranches of stolen documents, arranged by victim or subject matter. Other
dcleaks.com pages contained indexes of the stolen emails that wer e being released (bearing the
sender , recipient, and date of the email). To control access and the timing of releases, pag es were
sometimes password -protected for a period of time and later made unrestricted to the public.
Starting in June 2016 , the GRU posted stolen documents onto the websit e dcleaks.com ,
including documents stolen from a number of individuals associat ed with the Clinton Campaign.
These documents appeared to have originated from personal email accounts (in particular , Google
and Microsoft accounts) , rather than the DNC and DCCC computer networks. DCLeaks victims
included an advisor to the Clinton Campaign, a former DNC employee and Clinton Campaign
employee , and four other campaign volunteers .139 The GRU released through dcleaks.com
thousands of documents, including personal identifying and financial information , internal
correspondence related to the Clinton Campaign and prior political jobs , and fundraising files and
information. 140

Netyksho Indictment ,r29. The last-in-time DNC email released by WikiLeaks was dated May
25, 2016, the same period of time during which the GRU gained access to the DNC's email server.
Netyksho Indictment ,r45.
136

Netyksho Indictment ,r35. Approximately a week before the registration of dcleaks.com, the
same actors attem ted to re ister the website electionleaks.com using the same domain registration service .
137

138

See SM-2589105, serial 181; N etyksho Indictment

140

,r2 l(a).

See, e.g., Internet Archive, "htt s://dcleaks.com/" archive date Nov . 10, 2016) . Additionally ,
DCLeaks released documents relating to
, emails belonging
to-,
and emails from 2015 relating to Republican Party employees (under the potifolio name
"The United States Republican Party "). "The United States Republican Party" portfolio contained
approximately 300 emails from a variet y of GOP members, PACs, campaigns , state parties, and businesses
dated between May and October 2015. According to open-source reporting , these victims shared the same

41

