U.S. Department of Justice
Atten,ey Wefk PFeelttet// May·Cet'ltttiflMatel'ittl Preteeteel UH:elerFeel. R. CFirH.P. 6(e)
National Golf Club in Briarcliff Manor, New York, were recorded and published by the media. 1
remember winning those primaries and generally recall delivering remarks that evening.
At this point in time, I do not remember whether I spoke or met with Donald Trump, Jr., Paul
Manafort, or Jared Kushner on June 9, 2016. My desk calendar indicates I was scheduled to meet
with Paul Manafort on the morning of June 9, but I do not recall if that meeting took place. It was
more than two years ago, at a time when I had many calls and interactions daily.
·

Response to Question I, Part (e)

I have no independent recollection of any communications I had with the Agalarov family or
anyone I understood to be a representative of the Agalarov family after June 3, 20 16 and before
the end of the campaign. While preparing to respond to these questions, I have become aware of
written communications with the Agalarovs during the campaign that were sent, received, and
largely authored by my staff and which I understand have already been produced to you.
In general, the documents include congratulatory letters on my campaign victories, emails about a
painting Emin and Aras Agalarov arranged to have delivered to Trump Tower as a birthday
present, and emails regarding delivery of a book written by Aras Agalarov. The documents reflect
that the deliveries were screened by the Secret Service.
Response to Question I, Part (t)

I do not recall being aware during the campaign of communications between Donald Trump, Jr.,
Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family, Robert
Goldstone, Natalia Veselnitskaya (whose name I was not familiar with), or anyone I understood
to be a Russian official.

Response to Question I, Part (g)

In remarks I delivered the night I won the California, New Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and
South Dakota Republican primaries, I said, "I am going to give a major speech on probably
Monday of next week and we're going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with
the Clintons." In general, l expected to give a speech referencing the publicly available, negative
information about the Clintons, including, for example, Mrs. Clinton's failed policies, the
Clintons' use of the State Department to further their interests and the interests of the Clinton
Foundation, Mrs. Clinton's Lmproperuse of a private server for State Department business, the
destruction of33,000 emails on that server, and Mrs. Clinton' s temperamental unsuitability for the
office of President.
ln the course of preparing to respond to your questions, l have become aware that the Campaign
documents already produced to you reflect the drafting, evolution, and sources of information for
the speech I expected to give "probably" on the Monday following my June 7, 2016 comments.
These documents generally show that the text of the speech was initially drafted by Campaign staff
9

C-14

