U.S. Department of Justice
Atton1ey 'Nork Predttet // May CeHtaitt Material Proteetee UHeer Fed. R . Criffl. P. 6(e)

of emails. One week later, in the first week of May 2016 , Papadopoulos suggested to a
representative of a foreign government that the Trump Campaign had received indications from
the Russian government that it could assist the Campaign through the anonymous release of
information damaging to candidate Clinton. Throughout that period of time and for several months
thereafter , Papadopoulos worked with Mifsud and two Russian nationals to arrange a meeting
between the Campaign and the Russian government. No meeting took place .

Summer 2016. Russian outreach to the Trump Campaign continued into the summer of
2016, as candidate Trump was becoming the presumptive Republican nominee for President. On
June 9, 2016, for example, a Russian lawyer met with senior Trump Campaign officials Donald
Trump Jr., Jared Kushner , and campaign chairman Paul Manafort to deliver what the email
proposing the meeting had described as "official documents and information that would
incriminate Hillary." The materials were offered to Trump Jr. as "part of Russia and its
government's support for Mr. Trump." The written communications setting up the meeting
showed that the Campaign anticipated receiving information from Russia that could assist
candidate Trump ' s electoral prospects , but the Russian lawyer 's presentation did not provide such
information.
Days after the June 9 meeting, on June 14, 2016 , a cybersecurity firm and the DNC
announced that Russian government hackers had infiltrated the DNC and obtained access to
opposition research on candidate Trump, among other documents.
In July 2016 , Campaign foreign policy advisor Carter Page traveled in his personal capacity
to Moscow and gave the keynote address at the New Economic School. Page had lived and worked
in Russia between 2003 and 2007 . After returning to the United States, Page became acquainted
with at least two Russian intelligence officers , one of whom was later charged in 2015 with
conspiracy to act as an unregistered agent of Russia . Page 's July 2016 trip to Moscow and his
advocacy for pro-Russian foreign policy drew media attention . The Campaign then distanced itself
from Page and, by late September 2016, removed him from the Campaign .
July 2016 was also the month WikiLeaks first released emails stolen by the GRU from the
DNC. On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks posted thousands of internal DNC documents revealing
information about the Clinton Campaign. Within days, there was public reporting that U.S .
intelligence agencies had "high confidence " that the Russian government was behind the theft of
emails and documents from the DNC. And within a week of the release , a foreign government
informed the FBI about its May 2016 interaction with Papadopoulos and his statement that the
Russian government could assist the Trump Campaign. On July 31, 2016 , based on the foreign
government repo11ing, the FBI opened an investigation into potentia l coordination between the
Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign.
Separately, on August 2, 2016, Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort met in New York
City with his long-time business associate Konstantin Kilimnik, who the FBI assesses to have ties
to Russian intelligence. Kilimnik requested the meeting to deliver in person a peace plan for
Ukraine that Manafort acknowledged to the Special Counsel ' s Office was a "backdoor" way for
Russia to control part of eastern Ukraine; both men believed the plan would require candidate
Trump ' s assent to succeed (were he to be elected President). They also discussed the status of the

6

