U.S. Department of Justice
Alter!'le)' Werk Preauet // Ma)' Cetttail'l Material Preteete€1Utt€1erFee. R. Cril'l'I.P. 6(e)
campaign, I learned that he was somehow involved with individuals concerning Ukraine, but I do
not remember the specifics of what I knew at the time.
l had no knowledge of Mr. Manafort offering briefings on the progress of my campaign to an
individual named Oleg Deripaska, nor do I remember being aware of Mr. Manafort or anyone else
associated with my campaign sending or directing others to send internal Trump Campaign
information to anyone l knew to be in Ukraine or Russia at the time or to anyone I understood to
be a Ukrainian or Russian government employee or official. I do not remember Mr. Manafort
communicating to me any particular positions Ukraine or Russia would want the United States to
support.

Response to Question IV, Part (e)

I do not recall being told during the campaign of efforts by Russian officials to meet with me or
with senior members of my campaign. In the process of preparing to respond to these questions, I
became aware that on March 17, 2016, my assistant at the Trump Organization, Rhona Graff,
received an email from a Sergei Prikhodko, who identified himself as Deputy Prime Minister of
the Russian Federation, Foundation Roscongress, inviting me to participate in the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum to be held in June 2016. The documents show that Ms. Graff
prepared for my signature a brief response declining the invitation. I understand these documents
already have been produced to you.
Response to Question IV, Part (t)

I have no recollection of the details of what, when, or from what source I first learned about the
change to the platform amendment regarding arming Ukraine, but I generally recall learning of the
issue as part of media reporting. I do not recall being involved in changing the language to the
amendment.

Response to Question IV, Part (g)

My statement did not communicate any position.

V.

Contacts with Russia and Russia-Related Issues During the Transition

a.

Were you asked to attend the World Chess Championship gala on November JO, 2016? If
yes, who asked you to attend, when were you asked, and what were you told about about
[sic] why your presence was requested?
1.

Did you attend any part of the event? If yes, describe any interactions you had with
any Russians or representatives of the Russian government at the event.

17

C-22

