U.S. Department of Justice
A*efl'tey \I.ZerkPrech1et // May CeHtaiH Mate.-ial Preteetea UHcler Fee. R . Crim. P. 6(e)

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY TO VOLUME

I

RUSSIAN SOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIGN

The Internet Research Agency (IRA) carried out the earliest Russian interference
operations identified by the investigation-a social media campaign designed to provoke and
amplify political and social discord in the United States. The IRA was based in St. Petersburg ,
Russia, and received funding from Russian oligarch Yevgeniy Prigozhin and companies he
controlled. Pri ozhin is widel re orted to have ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin

The IRA later used social media accounts and interest groups to sow discord in the U.S.
political system through what it termed "information warfare." The campaign evolved from a
generalized program designed in 2014 and 2015 to undermine the U.S. electoral system, to a
targeted operation that by early 2016 favored candidate Trump and disparaged candidate Clinton.
The IRA's operation also included the purchase of political advertisements on social media in the
names of U.S. persons and entities, as well as the staging of political rallies inside the United
States. To organize those rallies , IRA employees posed as U.S. grassroots entities and persons and
made contact with Trump supporters and Trump Campaign officials in the United States. The
investigation did not identify evidence that any U.S. persons conspired or coordinated with the
IRA . Section II of this report details the Office ' s investigation of the Russian social media
campaign.
RUSSIAN HACKING OPERATIONS

At the same time that the IRA operation began to focus ·on supporting candidate Trump in
early 2016 , the Russian government employed a second form of interference: cyber intrusions
(hacking) and releases of hacked materials damaging to the Clinton Campaign . The Russian
intelligence service known as the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Russian
Army (GRU) carried out these operations.
In March 2016, the GRU began hacking the email accounts of Clinton Campaign
volunteers and employees , including campaign chairman John Podesta. In April 2016, the GRU
hacked into the computer networks of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee
(DCCC) and the Democratic National Committee (DNC). The GRU stole hundreds of thousands
of documents from the compromised email accounts and networks. Around the time that the DNC
announced in mid-June 2016 the Russian government 's role in hacking its network , the GRU
began disseminating stolen materials through the fictitious online personas "DCLeaks" and
"Guccifer 2.0." The GRU later released additional materials through the organization WikiLeaks .

4

