U.S. Department of Justice

AtterAe~·Werk Pret:ittet
// May Cei,taiAMaterialPreteetet:iUttt:ierFet:i.R. Crim. P. 6{e)

I.

THE SPECIAL COUNSEL'S INVESTIGATION

On May 17, 2017 , Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein-then serving as Acting
Attorney General for the Russia investigation following the recusal of former Attorney General
Jeff Sessions on March 2, 2016-appointed
the Special Counsel "to investigate Russian
interference with the 2016 presidential election and related matters. " Office of the Deputy Att 'y
Gen., Order No. 3915-2017 , Appointment of Special Counsel to Investigate Russian Interference
with the 2016 Presidential Election and Related Matters , May 17, 2017) ("Appointment Order") .
Relying on "the authority vested" in the Acting Attorney General , "including 28 U.S.C. §§ 509 ,
510, and 515 ," the Acting Attorney General ordered the appointment of a Special Counsel "in
order to discharge [the Acting Attorney General's] responsibility to provide supervision and
management of the Department of Justice, and to ensure a full and thorough investigation of the
Russian government's efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election. " Appointment Order
(introduction). "The Special Counsel, " the Order stated, "is authorized to conduct the investigation
confirmed by then-FBI Director James B. Corney in testimony before the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intell igence on March 20, 2017, " including:
1

(i) any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals
associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump ; and
(ii) any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation; and
(iii) any other matters within the scope of 28 C.F .R. § 600.4(a).
Appointment Order ,r(b ). Section 600.4 affords the Special Counsel "the authority to investigate
and prosecute federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the
Special Counsel's investigation, such as perjury , obstruction of justice , destruction of evidence,
and intimidation of witnesses." 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a). The authority to investigate "any matters
that arose . .. directly from the investigation, " Appointment Order ,r(b )(ii), covers similar crimes
that may have occurred during the course of the FBI's confi rmed investigation before the Special
Counsel's appointment. "If the Special Counsel believes it is necessary and appropriate, " the
Order further provided , "the Special Counsel is authorized to prosecute federal crimes arising from
the investigation of these matters. " Id. ,r(c). Finally, the Acting Attorney General made applicable
"Sections 600.4 through 600.10 of Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations. " Id. ,r(d) .
The Acting Attorney General further clarified the scope of the Special Counsel 's
investigatory authority in two subsequent memoranda . A memorandum dated August 2, 2017,
explained that the Appointment Order had been "worded categorically in order to permit its public
release without confirming specific investigations involving specific individuals."
It then
confirmed that the Special Counsel had been authorized since his appointment to investigate
allegations that three Trump campaign officials-Carter
Page , Paul Manafort, and George
Papadopoulos -" committed a crime or crimes by colluding with Russian government officials
with respect to the Russian government's efforts to interfere with the 2016 presidential election."
The memorandum also confirmed the Special Counsel 's authority to investigate certain other
matters , including two additional sets of allegations involving Manafort (crimes arising from
payments he received from the Ukrainian government and crimes arising from his receipt of loans
11

