U.S. Department of Justice
Att:effle~·Wet4{ Preattet // Ma,· CeHtfl.iHMaterial Preteetea UHaer Pea. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Aven
told Putin he would take steps to protect himself and the Alfa-Bank
shareholders from potential sanctions, and one of those steps would be to try to reach out to the
incoming Administration to establish a line of communication. 986 Aven described Putin
responding with skepticism about Aven's prospect for success .987 According to Aven, although
Putin did not expressly direct him to reach out to the Trump Transition Team, Aven understood
that Putin expected him to try to respond to the concerns he had raised. 988 Aven ' s efforts are
described in Volume I, Section IV.B.5, infra.
2. Kirill Dmitriev's Transition-Era Outreach to the Incoming Administration
Aven's description of his interactions with Putin is consistent with the behavior of Kirill
Dmitriev , a Russian national who heads Russia's sovereign wealth fund and is closely connected
to Putin. Dmitriev undertook efforts to meet members of the incoming Trump Administration in
the months after the election. Dmitriev asked a close business associate who worked for the United
Arab Emirates (UAE) royal court, George Nader , to introduce him to Trump transition officials,
and Nader eventually arranged a meeting in the Seychelles between Dmitriev and Erik Prince, a
Trump Campaign supporter and an associate of Steve Bannon. 989 In addition , the UAE national
security advisor introduced Dmitriev to a hedge fund manager and friend of Jared Kushner, Rick
Gerson, in late November 2016. In December 2016 and January 2017, Dmitriev and Gerson
worked on a proposal for reconciliation between the United States and Russia, which Dmitriev
implied he cleared through Putin . Gerson provided that proposal to Kushner before the
inauguration, and Kushner later gave copies to Bannon and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.

a. Background
Dmitriev is a Russian national who was appointed CEO of Russia ' s sovereign wealth fund,
the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) , when it was founded in 2011. 990 Dmitriev reported
directly to Putin and frequently referred to Putin as his "boss. "991
RDIF has co-invested in various projects with UAE sovereign wealth funds. 992 Dmitriev
regularly interacted with Nader, a senior advisor to UAE Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed

989

Nader provided information to the Office in multi le interviews , all but one of which were
conducted under a proffer agreement
. The
investi ators also interviewed Prince under a proffer agreement. Bannon was interviewed by the Office,
under a proffer agreement.

° Kirill Dmitriev Biography, Russian Direct Investment Fund, available at
https://rdif.ru/Eng_person_dmitriev _kirill/. See also Overview, Russian Direct Investment Fund, available
at https:/ /rdif.ru/Eng_About/.
99

991

Gerson 6/15/18 302, at l. See also, e.g., 12/14/16 Text Message, Dmitriev to Gerson; 1/9/17
Text Message , Dmitriev to Gerson.
992

147

