U.S. Department of Justice
A~e,ri,e,· We,fk Pre,tlttet // Ma.y Cmtta.ii, Ma.tefia.l Prnteetea Ui,aer Fee. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

time to issue a correction for a news story-indicates the President was not focused solely on a
press strategy , but instead likely contemplated the ongoing investigation and any proceedings
arising from it.
c.
Intent. Substantial evidence indicates that in repeatedly urging McGahn to dispute
that he was ordered to have the Special Counsel terminated, the President acted for the purpose of
influencing McGahn's account in order to deflect or prevent further scrutiny of the President's
conduct towards the investigation.
Several facts support that conclusion. The President made repeated attempts to get
McGahn to change his story. As described above, by the time of the last attempt, the evidence
suggests that the President had been told on multiple occasions that McGahn believed the President
had ordered him to have the Special Counsel terminated. McGahn interpreted his encounter with
the President in the Oval Office as an attempt to test his mettle and see how committed he was to
his memory of what had occurred. The President had already laid the groundwork for pressing
McGahn to alter his account by telling Porter that it might be necessary to fire McGahn if he did
not deny the story, and Porter relayed that statement to McGahn. Additional evidence of the
President's intent may be gleaned from the fact that his counsel was sufficiently alarmed by the
prospect of the President's meeting with McGahn that he called McGahn' s counsel and said that
McGahn could not resign no matter what happened in the Oval Office that day . The President's
counsel was well aware of McGahn's resolve not to issue what he believed to be a false account
of events despite the President's request. Finally , as noted above, the President brought up the
Special Counsel investigation in his Oval Office meeting with McGahn and criticized him for
telling this Office about the June 17, 2017 events. The President's statements reflect his
understanding-and
his displeasure-that those events would be part of an obstruction-of-justice
mqmry.
J.

The President's Conduct Towards Flynn, Manafort, ~

Overview
In addition to the interactions with McGahn described above, the President has taken other
actions directed at possible witnesses in the Special Counsel's investigation, including Flynn ,
Manafort,
as described in the next section , Cohen. When Flynn withdrew from a joint
defense agreement with the President , the President's personal counsel stated that Flynn 's actions
would be viewed as reflecting "hostility" towards the President. During Manafort's prosecution
and while the jury was deliberating , the President repeatedly stated that Manafott was bein treated
unfair! and made it known that Manafort could receive a ardon.

IU•W!and

Evidence
1. Conduct Directed at Michael Flynn

As previously noted , see Volume II, Section II.B, supra, the President asked for Flynn's
resignation on February 13, 2017. Following Flynn ' s resignation, the President made positive
public comments about Flynn, describing him as a "wonderful man," "a fine person," and a "very
120

