U.S. Department of Justice
Al:torAeyWork Protlttet // MB::,"
CoAtB:ifl~foteriB:lProteetetl UAtler Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Corney's public announcement of the FBT's Russia investigation, is nevertheless relevant to
understanding what motivated the President's other actions towards the investigation.
The evidence shows that the President was focused on the Russia investigation's
implications for his presidency-and, specifically, on dispelling any suggestion that he was under
investigation or had links to Russia. In early March, the President attempted to prevent Sessions's
recusal, even after being told that Sessions was following DOJ conflict-of-interest rules . After
Sessions recused, the White House Counsel's Office tried to cut off further contact with Sessions
about the matter, although it is not clear whether that direction was conveyed to the President. The
President continued to raise the issue of Sessions 's recusal and, when he had the opportunity, he
pulled Sessions aside and urged him to unrecuse. The President also told advisors that he wanted
an Attorney General who would protect him, the way he perceived Robert Kennedy and Eric
Holder to have protected their presidents. The P~esident made statements about being able to direct
the course of criminal investigations, saying words to the effect of, "You're telling me that Bobby
and Jack didn't talk about investigations? Or Obama didn't tell Eric Holder who to investigate?"
After Corney publicly confirmed the existence of the FBT's Russia investigation on March
20, 2017, the President was "beside himself ' and expressed anger that Corney did not issue a
statement correcting any misperception that the President himself was under investigation. The
President sought to speak with Acting Attorney General Boente directly and told McGahn to
contact Boente to request that Corney make a clarifying statement. The President then asked other
intelligence community leaders to make public statements to refute the suggestion that the
President had links to Russia, but the leaders told him they could not publicly comment on the
investigation. On March 30 and April 11, against the advice of White House advisors who had
informed him that any direct contact with the FBI could be perceived as improper interference in
an ongoing investigation , the President made personal outreaches to Corney asking him to "lift the
cloud" of the Russia investigation by making public the fact that the President was not personally
under investigation.
Evidence indicates that the President was angered by both the existence of the Russia
investigation and the public reporting that he was under investigation , which he knew was not true
based on Corney's representations. The President complained to advisors that if people thought
Russia helped him with the election , it would detract from what he had accomplished.
Other evidence indicates that the President was concerned about the impact of the Russia
investigation on his ability to govern. The President complained that the perception that he was
under investigation was hurting his ability to conduct foreign relations , particularly with Russia.
The President told Coats he "can't do anything with Russia," he told Rogers that "the thing with
the Russians" was interfering with his ability to conduct foreign affairs, and he told Corney that
"he was trying to run the country and the cloud of this Russia business was making that difficult."

61

