U.S . Department of Justice
AM:e,me)"
Werk Pt=etlttet// May CeHtaiHMatet=ialPrnteetetl UHtlet=Fed. R. Ct=iffi.P. 6(e)

Finally , the President ' s effort to have McFarland write an internal email denying that the
President had directed Flynn to discuss sanctions with Kislyak highlight s the President 's concern
about being associated with Flynn ' s condu ct. The evidence does not establish that the President
was trying to have McFarland lie. The President ' s request , however, was sufficientl y irregular
that McFarland - who did not know the full extent of Flynn ' s communications with the President
and thus could not make the representation the President wanted-felt the need to draft an internal
memorandum documenting the President's request , and Eisenberg wa s concerned that the request
would look like a quid pro quo in exchange for an ambassador ship.

C.

The President's Reaction to Public Confirmation of the FBl's Russia
Investigation
Overview

In early March 2017 , the President learned that Sessions was c onsidering rec using from
the Russia investigation and tried to prevent the recusal. After Sessions announced his recusal on
March 2, the President expressed . anger at Session s for the decision and then privately asked
Sessions to "unrecus e." On March 20, 2017 , Corney publicl y disclosed the existence of the FBI ' s
Russia investigation.
In th e days that followed, the President contacted Corney and other
inte lligence agency leaders and asked them to push back publicly on the suggestion that the
President had any connection to the Russian election-interference effort in order to " lift the cloud "
of the ongoing investigation .

Evid ence
I . Attorn ey General Sessions Recuses From the Russia Inv estigation

In late February 2017 , the Department of Justice began an internal anal ysis of whether
Sessions should recus e from the Russia investigation based on his role in the 2016 Trump
Campaign. 273 On March I, 2017, the pres s reported that , in his January confirmation hearing to
become Attorney General, Senator Sessions had not disclos ed two meetings he had with Russian
Ambassador Kislyak before the presidential election, leading to congressional calls for Sessions
to recuse or for a special counsel to investigate Ru ssia 's interference in the presidential election. 274
Also on March I , the Presid ent called Corney and said he wanted to check in and see how
Corney was doing .275 According to an email Corney sent to his chief of staff after the call , the
President "talked about Sessions a bit ," said that he had hea rd Corney was "doing great ," and said
that he hoped Corney would come by to say hello when he was at the White House. 276 Corney

273

Sessions 1/ 17/ 18 302, at I ; Hunt 2/ 1/18 302, at 3.

274

E.g. , Adam Entous et al., Sessions met with Russian envoy twice last y ear, encounters he later
did not disclose, Washington Post (Mar. I, 2017).
275

3/ 1/ 17 Email, Corney to Rybicki; SCR012b_000030 (President's Daily Diary, 3/l / 17, reflecting
call with Corney at 11:55 am.)
276

3/1/ 17 Email, Corney to Rybicki; see Hearing on Russian Election Interference Bef ore the
Senate Select Intelligence Committee , I 15th Cong. (June 8, 2017) (CQ Cong. Transcripts, at 86) (testimony

48

