U.S. Department of Justice
At:t:omey Work Protittet // MB.)'CoHtaiH Matef'ial Proteeteti UHtter Fee . R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

APPENDIXD
SPECIAL COUNSEL'S OFFICE TRANSFERRED, REFERRED, AND COMPLETED CASES

This appendix identifies matters transferred or referred by the Special Counsel's Office, as
well as cases prosecuted by the Office that are now completed.

A. Transfers
The Special Counsel's Office has concluded its investigation into links and coordination
between the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign. Certain
matters assigned to the Office by the Acting Attorney General have not fully concluded as of the
date of this report. After consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office
has transferred responsibility for those matters to other components of the Department of Justice
and the FBI. Those transfers include:
1. United States v. Bijan Rafiekian and Kamil Ekim Alptekin
U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Virginia
(Awaiting trial)
The Acting Attorney General authorized the Special Counsel to investigate, among other
things, possible criminal conduct by Michael Flynn in acting as an unregistered agent for the
Government of Turkey. See August 2, 2017 Memorandum from Rod J. Rosenstein to Robert S.
Mueller, III. The Acting Attorney General later confirmed the Special Counsel's authority to
investigate Rafiekian and Alptekin because they "may have been jointly involved " with Flynn in
FARA-related crimes. See October 20, 2017 Memorandum from Associate Deputy Attorney
General Scott Schools to Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein.
On December 1, 2017, Flynn pleaded guilty to an Information charging him with making
false statements to the FBI about his contacts with the Russian ambassador to the United States.
As part of that plea, Flynn agreed to a Statement of the Offense in which he acknowledged that
the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) documents he filed on March 7, 2017 "contained
materially false statements and omissions." Flynn ' s plea occurred before the Special Counsel had
made a final decision on whether to charge Rafiekian or Alptekin. On March 27, 2018 , after
consultation with the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Special Counsel's Office referred
the investigation of Rafiekian and Alptekin to the National Security Division (NSD) for any action
it deemed appropriate. The Special Counsel's Office determined the referral was appropriate
because the investigation of Flynn had been completed , and that investigation had provided the
rationale for the Office's investigation of Rafiekian and Alptekin. At NS D's request, the Eastern
District of Virginia continued the investigation of Rafiekian and Alptekin.
2. United States v. Michael Flynn

U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia
(Awaiting sentencing)

0-1

