U.S. Department of Justice
Attorney Work Protittet // May COf1taiHMaterial Proteeteti UHaer Fed. R. Crifft. P. 6(e)

are presumed to follow those instructions, the President 's statements during the trial generated
substantial media coverage that could have reached jurors if they happened to see the statements
or learned about them from others. And the President ' s statements during jury deliberations that
Manafort "happens to be a very good person " and that "it's very sad what they've done to Paul
Manafort " had the potential to influence jurors who learned of the statement s, which the President
made just as jurors were considering whether to convict or acquit Manafort .

ma

b.

Nexus to an official proceeding. The President's actions towards Flynn, Manafort,
appear to have been connected to pending or ~d
official proceedings involving
each individual. The President 's conduct towards Flynnprincipally occurred when both
were under criminal investigation by the Special Counsel's Office and press reports speculated
about whether they would cooperat e with the Special Counsel ' s investigation. And the President's
conduct towards Manafort was directly connected to the official proce edings involving him. The
President made statements about Manafort and the charges against him during Manafort ' s criminal
trial. And the President ' s comments about the prospe ct of Manafort "flipping " occurred when it
was clear the Special Counsel continued to oversee grand jury proceedings.
c.
Intent. Evidence concerning the President ' s intent related to Flynn as a potential
witness is inconclusive. As previously noted , because of privilege issues we do not have evidence
establishin g wheth er the President knew about or was involved in his counsel ' s communications
with Flynn 's counsel stating that Flynn's decision to withdraw from the joint defense agreement
and cooperate with the government would be viewed as reflecting "hostility " towards the
Presid ent. And regardles s of what the Presid ent' s personal counsel communi cated, the President
continued to express sympathy for Flynn after he pleaded guilty pursuant to a cooperation
agreement, stating that Flynn had " led a very strong life" and the President "fe[lt] very badly "
about what had happened to him.
Evidence concerning the President's conduct towards Manafort indicates that the President
intended to encourage Manafort to not cooperate with the government. Before Manafort was
convicted , the President repeatedly stated that Manafort had been treated unfairly. One day after
Manafort was convicted on eight felony charges and potentially faced a lengthy prison term, the
Presid ent said that Manafort wa s "a brave man" for refusing to "break " and that "flipping " "almost
ought to be outlawed." At the same time , although the President had privately told aides he did
not like Manafort , he publicly called Manafort "a good man" and said he had a "wonderful family. "
And when the President was asked wh ether he was considering a pardon for Manafort, the
President did not respond directly and instead said he had "great respect for what [Manafort]'s
done , in terms of what he's gone through. " The Presid ent added that "some of the charges the y
threw against him, every consultant , every lobbyist in Washington probabl y does." In light of the
President ' s counsel ' s previous statements that the investigations "might get cleaned up with some
presidential pardons " and that a pardon would be possible if the President "come[ s] to the
conclusion that you have been treated unfairly ," the evidence supports the inference that the

132

