U.S. Department of Justice
AtterHey Werk Preelttet // Ma:yCef!:ta:iH
Ma:terialPreteetea UHaer Fea. R. Crim.. P. 6(e)

value," even though "the value of these materials may be nominal or difficult to ascertain. " FEC
Advisory Opinion 2007-22 (Hurysz) , 2007 WL 5172375, at *5.
These authorities would support the view that candidate-related opposition research given
to a campaign for the purpose of influencing an election could constitute a contribution to which
the foreign-source ban could apply. A campaign can be assisted not only by the provision of funds,
but also by the provision of derogatory information about an opponent. Political campaigns
frequently conduct and pay for opposition research . A foreign entity that engaged in such research
and provided resulting information to a campaign could exert a greater effect on an election , and
a greater tenden cy to ingratiate the donor to the candidate , than a gift of money or tangible things
of value . At the same time , no judicial decision has treated the voluntary provision of
uncompensated opposition research or similar information as a thing of value that could amount
to a contribut ion under campaign -finance law. Such an interpretation could have implication s
beyond the foreign-source ban, see 52 U.S.C. § 30116(a) (imposing monetary limits on campaign
contribution s), and raise First Amendment questions. Those questions could be especially difficult
where the information consisted simply of the recounting of historically accurate facts. It is
uncertain how courts would resolve those issues .

ii. Willfulness
Even assuming that the promised " documents and information that would incriminate
Hillary" constitute a "thing of value " under campaign -finance law, the government would
encounter other challenges in seeking to obtain and sustain a conviction. Most significantly , the
government has not obtained admissible evidence that is likely to establish the scienter requirement
beyond a reasonable doubt. To prove that a defendant acted "knowingly and willfully, " the
government would have to show that the defendant had general knowledge that his conduct was
unlawful. U.S. Department of Justice, Federal Prosecution of Election Offenses 123 (8th ed. Dec.
2017) ("Election Offenses"); see Bluman, 800 F. Supp. 2d at 292 (noting that a willful violation
requires "proof of the defendant ' s knowledge of the law"); Danielczyk , 917 F. Supp . 2d at 577
("knowledge of general unlawfulness "). "This standard creates an elevated scienter element
requiring, at the very least, that application of the law to the facts in question be fairly clear. When
there is substantial doubt concerning whether the law applies to the facts of a pa rticular matter, the
offender is more likely to have an intent defense." Election Offenses 123.
·
On the facts here, the government would unlikely be able to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt that the June 9 meeting participants had general knowledge that their conduct was unlawful.
The investigation has not developed evidence that the participants in the meeting were familiar
with the foreign-contribution ban or the application of federal Jaw to the relevant factual context.
The government does not have strong evidence of surreptitious behavior or efforts at concealment
at the time of the June 9 meeting. While the government has evidence of later efforts to prevent
disclosure of the nature of the June 9 meeting that could circumstantially provide support for a
showing of sciente r, see Volume II, Section II.G, infra, that concealment occurred more than a
year later, involved individuals who did not attend the June 9 meeting , and may reflect an intention
to avoid political consequences rather than any prior knowledge of illegality . Additionally , in light
of the unresolved legal questions about whether giving "documents and information " of the sort
offered here constitutes a campaign contribution, Trump Jr . could mount a factual defense that he
187

