U.S. Department of Justice
Afteftte)· Werk Preduet // May Centaitt Material Preteeted Ut1der Pea. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

outside of the U.S. who are not legal permanent residents, and certain non-U.S. entities located
outside of the U.S.
·
A "knowingD and willful[]" violation involving an aggregate of $25,000 or more in a
calendar year is a felony . 52 U.S.C. § 30109( d)(l )(A)(i); see Bluman, 800 F . Supp. 2d at 292
(noting that a willful violation will require some "proof of the defendant's knowledge of the law");
United States v. Danielczyk, 917 F. Supp. 2d 573 , 577 (E.D. Va. 2013) (applying willfulness
standard drawn from Bryan v. United States, 524 U.S. 184, 191-92 (1998)); see also Wagner v.
FEC, 793 F.3d I, 19 n.23 (D.C. Cir. 2015) (en bane) (same). A "knowingO and willful[]" violation
involving an aggregate of $2,000 or more in a calendar year , but less than $25,000 , is a
misdemeanor. 52 U.S.C. § 30109(d)(l)(A)(ii).

b. Application to June 9 Trump Tower Meeting
The Office considered whether to charge Trump Campaign officials with crimes in
connection with the June 9 meeting described in Volume I, Section IV.A .5, supra. The Office
concluded that, in light of the government ' s substantial burden of proof on issues of intent
("knowing " and "willful") , and the difficulty of establishing the value of the offered information,
criminal charges would not meet the Justice Manual standard that "the admissible evidence will
probably be sufficient to obtain and sustain a conviction." Justice Manual§ 9-27.220.
In brief , the key facts are that, on June 3, 2016 , Robert Goldstone emailed Donald Trump
Jr., to pass along from Emin and Aras Agalarov an "offer" from Russia ' s "Crown prosecutor" to
"the Trump campaign" of "official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary and
her dealings with Russia and would be very useful to [Trump Jr. 's] father. " The email described
this as "very high level and sensitive information " that is "part of Russia and its government ' s
support to Mr. Trump-helped along by Aras and Emin." Trump Jr. responded: "if it's what you
say I love it especially later in the summer ." Trump Jr. and Emin Agalarov had follow-up
conversations and , within days , scheduled a meeting with Russian representatives that was
attended by Trump Jr., Manafort , and Kushner. The communications setting up the meeting and
the attendance by high-level Campaign representatives support an inference that the Campaign
anticipated receiving derogatory documents and information from official Russian sources that
could assist candidate Trump ' s electoral prospects .
This series of events could implicate the federal election-law ban on contributions and
donations by foreign nationals, 52 U.S.C. § 3012l(a)(l)(A). Specifically, Goldstone passed along
an offer purportedly from a Russian government official to provide "official documents and
information" to the Trump Campaign for the purposes of influencing the presidential election .
Trump Jr. appears to have accepted that offer and to have arranged a meeting to receive those
materials. Documentary evidence in the form of email chains supports the inference that Kushner
and Manafort were aware of that purpose and attended the June 9 meeting anticipating the receipt
of helpful information to the Campaign from Russian sources.
The Office considered whether this evidence would establish a conspiracy to violate the
foreign contributions ban, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371; the solicitation of an illegal foreignsource contribution; or the acceptance or receipt of "an express or implied promise to make a
185

