U.S. Department of Justice
Att:orne)·'Nork Proclttet// Mtt)"Cofltttifl Material Proteetecl UfleePFeel. R. Crilfl. P. 6(e)

d.

iii.

What were you told about what was discussed at the June 9 meeting? Describe each
conversation in which you were told about whal was discussed at lhe meeting, who
the conversation was with, when it occurred, and the substance of the statements
they made about the meeting.

iv.

Were you told that the June 9 meeting was about, in whole or in part, adoption
and/or the Magnitsky Act? l f yes, describe who you had that discussion with, when,
and the substance of the discussion.

For the period June 6, 2016 through June 9, 2016, for what portion of each day were you
in Trump Tower?
1.

Did you speak or meet with Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner
on June 9, 2016? If yes, did any portion of any of those conversations or meetings
include any reference to any aspect of the June 9 meeting? If yes, describe who you
spoke with and the substance of the conversation.

e.

Did you communicate directly or indirectly with any member or representative of the
Agalarov family after June 3, 2016? lf yes, describe who you spoke with, when, and the
substance of the communication.

f.

Did you learn of any communications between Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared
Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family, Natalia Veselnitskaya,
Rob Goldstone, or any Russian official or contact that took place after June 9, 20 I.6 and
concerned the June 9 meeting or efforts by Russia to assist the campaign? If yes, describe
who you learned this information from, when, and the substance of what you learned.

g.

On June 7, 2016, you gave a speech in which you said, in part, "[ am going to give a major
speech on probably Monday of next week and we're going to be discussing all of the things
that have taken place with the Clintons.''

h.

1.

Why did you make that statement?

ii.

What information did you plan lo share with respect to the Clintons?

iii.

What did you believe the source(s) of that information would be?

iv.

Did you expect any of the information to have come from the June 9 meeting?

v.

Did anyone help draft the speech that you were referring to? If so, who?

vi.

Why did you ultimately not give the speech you referenced on June 7, 2016?

Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or the Russian

7

C-12

