U.S . Department of Justice

AttoFl'te)'Work Procluet // Ma)' CoAtaiAMateFial Proteetecl UAclerFecl. R. CriA1.P. 6(e)

Conway, Kellyanne

Counse lor to President Trump and manager of the Trump Campaign .

Corallo, Mark

Spokesman for President Trump ' s personal legal team (June 2017 - July
2017).

Corsi, Jerome

Costello, Robert

Attorney who represented he had a close relationship with Rudolph
Giuliani, the President's personal counsel.

Credico, Randolph
(Randy)
Davis, Richard
(Rick) Jr.

Partner with Pegasus Sustainable Century Merchant Bank, business
partner of Paul Manafort, and co-founder of the Davis Manafort lobbying
firm.

Dearborn, Rick

Former White House deputy chief of staff for policy who previously
served as chief of staff to Senator Jeff Sessions.

Dempsey, Michael

Office of Director of National Intelligence official who recalled
discussions with Dan Coats after Coats's meeting with President Trump
on March 22, 2017.

Denman, Diana

Delegate to 2016 Republican National Convention who proposed a
platform plank amendment that included armed support for Ukraine.

Deripaska, Oleg

Russian businessman with ties to Vladimir Putin who hired Paul
Manafort for consulting work between 2005 and 2009.

Dhillon, Uttam

Attorney in the White House Counse l's Office (Jan . 2017 - June 2018).

Dmitriev, Kirill

Head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF); met with Erik
Prince in the Seychelles in January 2017 and, separately , drafted a U.S.Russia reconciliation plan with Rick Gerson .

Donaldson , Annie

Chiefof staff to White House Counsel Donald McGahn (Jan. 2017-Dec.
2018).

Dvorkovich, Arkady

Deputy prime minister of the Russian Federation and chairman of the
board of directors of the New Economic School in Moscow. He met with
Carter Page twice in 2016 .

Dvoskin, Evgeney

Executive of Genba nk in Crimea and associate of Felix Sater .

Eisenberg, John

Attorney in the White House Counsel's Office and legal counsel for the
Nationa l Security Council.

Erchova, Lana
(a/Ida Lana
Alexander)

Ex-wife of Dmitry Klokov who ema iled Ivanka Trump to introduce
Klokov to the Trump Campaign in the fall of 2015.

B-3

