U.S. Department of Justice
Atten1ey '.\'erk Prm:ittet // Mtt)" Cm1:tttiHMttterittl Preteetee UHeer Fee. R . Crim. P. 6(e)

IV.

Contactswith Russiaand Russia-RelatedIssuesDuring the Campaign
a. Prior to mid-August 2016, did you become aware that Paul Manafort had ties to
the Ukrainian government? If yes, describe who you learned this information
from, when, and the substance of what you were told. Did Mr. Manafort's
connections to the Ukrainian or Russian governments play any role in your
decision to have him join your campaign? If yes, describe that role.
b. Were you aware that Paul Manafort offered briefings on the progress of your
campaign to Oleg Deripaska? If yes, describe who you learned this information
from, when, the substance of what you were told, what you understood the
purpose was of sharing such information with Mr. Deripaska, and how you
responded to learning this information.
c. Were you aware of whether Paul Manafort or anyone else associated with your
campaign sent or directed others to send internal Trump campaign information to
any person located in Ukraine or Russia or associated with the Ukrainian or
Russian governments? If yes, identify who provided you with this information,
when, the substance of the discussion(s), what you understood the purpose was
of sharing the internal campaign information, and how you responded to learning
this information.
d. Did Paul Manafort communicate to you, directly or indirectly, any positions
Ukraine or Russia would want the U.S. to support? If yes, describe when he
communicated those positions to you and the substance of those
communications.
e. During the campaign, were you told about efforts by Russian officials to meet with
you or senior members of your campaign? If yes, describe who you had
conversations with on this topic, when, and what you were told.
f.

What role, if any, did you have in changing the Republican Party platform
regarding arming Ukraine during the Republican National Convention? Prior to
the convention, what information did you have about this platform provision?
After the platform provision was changed, who told you about the change, when
did they tell you, what were you told about why it was changed, and who was
involved?

g. On July 27, 2016, in response to a question about whether you would recognize
Crimea as Russianterritory and lift sanctions on Russia,you said: "We'll be looking
at that. Yeah, we'll be looking ." Did you intend to communicate by that statement
or at any other time during the campaign a willingness to lift sanctions and/or
recognize Russia's annexation of Crimea if you were elected?

C-8

