U.S. Department of Justice
A1torRe~· Work Proet1et // May CoRtaiR Material Proteetee UReer Fee. R. Crim . P. 6(e)

should cease , or were you informed at any time that the project had been abandoned? If
yes , describe who you spoke with , when , the substance of the discussion(s) , and why that
decision was made.

f.

Did you have any discussions regarding what information would be provided publicly or
in response to investigative inquiries about potential or actual investments or business deals
the Trump Organization had in Russia, including the Trump Moscow project? If yes ,
describe who you spoke with, when , and the substance of the discussion(s).

g.

Aside from the Trump Moscow project, did you or the Trump Organization have any other
prospective or actual business interests , investments , or arrangements with Russia or any
Russian interest or Russian individual during the campaign? If yes, describe the business
intere sts, investments, or arrangements.

Response to Question Ill , Parts (a) through (g)
Sometime in 201 S, Michael Cohen suggested to me the possibility of a Trump Organization project
in Moscow. As I recall, Mr. Cohen described this as a proposed project of a general type we have
done in the past in a variety of locations . l signed the non -binding Letter of Intent attached to your
questions as Exhibit B which required no equit y or expenditure on our end and was consistent with
our ongoing efforts to expand into significant market s around the world.
I had few conversations with Mr. Cohen on this subject. As I recall , they were brief , and they were
not memorable. I was not enthused about the proposal, and I do not recall any discussion of travel
to Russia in connection with it. I do not remember discussing it with anyone else at the Trump
Organization , although it is possible. I do not recall being aware at the time of any communications
between Mr . Cohen or Felix Sater and any Russian government official regarding the Letter of
Intent. In the course of preparing to respond to your questions , I have become aware that Mr.
Cohen sent an email regarding the Letter of Intent to " Mr. Peskov " at a general , public email
account , which should show there was no meaningful relationship with people in power in Russia.
I understand those documents already have been provided to you.
I vaguely remember press inquiries and media reporting during the campaign about whether the
Trump Organization had business dealings in Russia. I may have spoken with campaign staff or
Trump Organization employee s regarding responses to requests for information , but I have no
current recollection of any particular conversation , with whom l may have spoken , when , or the
substance of any conversation. As I recall , neither I nor the Trump Organization had any projects
or proposed projects in Russia during the campaign other than the Letter of Intent.

IV.

Contacts with Russia and Russia-Related Issues During the Campaign

a.

Prior to mid-August 2016, did you become aware that Paul Manafort had ties to the
Ukrainian government ? If yes, describe who you learned this information from, when , and
the substance of what you were told. Did Mr. Manafort's connections to the Ukrainian or

15

C-20

