U.S. Department of Justice
Aftoffley Work Protlttet // Ma:,· COf1taiHMaterial Proteetetl UHeer Fee. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

investigation and any grand jury proceedings that might flow from the inquiry. Even if the removal
of the lead prosecutor would not prevent the investigation from continuing under a new appointee ,
a factfinder would need to consider whether the act had the potential to delay further action in the
investigation , chill the actions of any replacement Special Counsel, or otherwise impede the
investigation.
A threshold question is whether'the President in fact directed McGahn to have the Special
Counsel removed. After news organizations reported that in June 2017 the President had ordered
McGahn to have the Special Counsel removed, the President publicly disputed these accounts , and
privately told McGahn that he had ,simply wanted McGahn to bring conflicts of interest to the
Department of Justice ' s attention . See Volume II, Section II.I , infra. Some of the President's
specific language that McGahn recalled from the calls is consistent with that explanation.
Substantial evidence , however, supports the conclusion that the President went further and in fact
directed McGahn to call Rosenstein to have the Special Counsel removed.
First, McGahn ' s clear recollection was that the President directed him to tell Rosenstein
not only that conflicts existed but also that "Mueller has to go. " McGahn is a credible witness
60 1
with no motive to lie or exaggerate given the position he held in the White House.
McGahn
spoke with the President twice and understood the directive the same way both times, making it
unlikely that he misheard or misinterpreted the President's request. In response to that request,
McGahn decided to quit because he did not want to participate in events that he described as akin
to the Saturday Night Massacre. He called his lawyer, drove to the White House , packed up his
office, prepared to submit a resignation letter with his chief of staff, told Priebus that the President
had asked him to "do crazy shit, " and informed Priebus and Bannon that he was leaving. Those
acts would be a highly unusual reaction to a request to convey information to the Department of
Justice.
Second , in the days before the calls to McGahn , the President , through his counsel, had
already brought the asserted conflicts to the attention of the Department of Justice. Accordingly ,
the President had no reason to have McGahn call Rosenstein that weekend to raise conflicts issues
that already had been raised.
Third, the President 's sense ofurgency and repeated requests to McGahn to take immediate
action on a weekend- " You gotta do this. You gotta call Rod."-suppot1 McGahn's recollection
that the President wanted the Department of Justice to take action to remove the Special Counsel.
Had the President instead sought only to have the Department of Justice re-examine asserted
conflicts to evaluate whether they posed an ethical bar, it would have been unnecessary to set the
process in motion on a Saturday and to make repeated calls to McGalm.
Finally , the President had discussed "knocking out Mueller" and raised conflicts of interest
in a May 23, 2017 call with McGahn, reflecting that the President connected the conflicts to a plan
to remove the Special Counsel. And in the days leading up to June 17, 2017, the President made
clear to Priebus and Bannon, who then told Ruddy , that the President was considering terminating
601 When this Office first interviewed McGahn about this topic, he was reluctant to share detailed
information about what had occurred and only did so after continued questioning. See McGahn 12/ 14/ 17
302 (agent notes).

88

