U.S. Department of Justice
AttorHey Work Prodttet // May Cotttaifl Material Proteeted UHder Fed. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

the IDA to delete the sentence , "The building project led me to make limited contacts with Russian
government officials."
The President's personal counsel declined to provide us with his account of his
conversations with Cohen, and there is no evidence available to us that indicates that the President
was aware of the information Cohen provided to the President's personal counsel. The President's
conversations with his personal counsel were presumptively protected by attorney-client privilege ,
and we did not seek to obtain the contents of any such communications. The absence of evidence
about the President and his counsel's conversations about the drafting of Cohen's statement
precludes us from assessing what , if any, role the President played.
ii.
Second , we considered whether the President took actions that would have
the natural tendency to prevent Cohen from providing truthful information to criminal
investigators or to Congress .
Before Cohen began to cooperate with the government , the President publicly and privately
urged Cohen to stay on message and not "flip." Cohen recalled the President's personal counsel
telling him that he would be protected so long as he did not go "rogue." In the days and weeks
that followed the April 2018 searches of Cohen ' s home and office, the President told reporters that
Cohen was a "good man" and said he was "a fine person with a wonderful family ... who I have
always liked & respected." Privately, the President told Cohen to "hang in there " and "stay
strong." People who were close to both Cohen and the President passed messages to Cohen that
"the President loves you ," "the boss loves you," and "everyone knows the boss has your back."
Through the President ' s personal counsel, the President also had previously told Cohen "thanks
for what you do" after Cohen provided information to the media about payments to women that,
according to Cohen, both Cohen and the President knew was false. At that time, the Trump
Organization continued to pay Cohen ' s legal fees , which was important to Cohen. Cohen also
recalled discussing the possibility of a pardon with the President ' s personal counsel , who told him
to stay on message and everything would be fine. The President indicated in his public statements
that a pardon had not been ruled out , and also stated publicly that " [m]ost people will flip if the
Government lets them out of trouble" but that he "d[idn ' t] see Michael doing that."
After it was reported that Cohen intended to cooperate with the government , however, the
President accused Cohen of "mak[ing] up stories in order to get himself out of an unrelated jam
(Taxi cabs maybe?), " called Cohen a "rat," and on multiple occasions publicly suggested t~at
Cohen's family members had committed crimes. The evidence concerning this sequence of events
could support an inference that the President used inducements in the form of positive messages
in an effort to get Cohen not to cooperate , and then turned to attacks and intimidation to deter the
provision of information or undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen began cooperating.
b.
Nexus to an official proceeding. The President's relevant"conduct towards Cohen
occurred when the President knew the Special Counsel's Office, Congress, and the U.S. Attorney's
Office for the Southern District of New York were investigating Cohen's conduct. The President
acknowledged through his public statements and tweets that Cohen potentially could cooperate
with the government investigations.

154

