U.S. Department of Justice

AttorRe:y
· Werk Prnclttet// May CoRtaiRMatefittl Prnteetecl URclefFecl. R. Cfitfl. P. 6(e)

The President 's efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is
largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede
to his requests. Corney did not end the investigation of Flynn, which ultimately resulted in Flynn's
prosecution and conviction for lying to the FBI. McGahn did not tell the Acting Attorney General
that the Special Counse l must be removed , but was instead prepared to resign over the President's
order. Lewandowski and Dearborn did not deliver the President ' s message to Sessions that he
should confine the Russia investigation to future election meddling only. And McGahn refused to
recede from his recollections about events surrounding the President's direction to have the Special
Counsel removed, despite the President's multiple demands that he do so. Consistent with that
pattern, the evidence we obtained would not support potential obstruction charges against the
President ' s aides and associates beyond those already filed.
b. In considering the full scope of the conduct we investigated, the President's actions can
be divided into two distinct phases reflecting a possible shift in the President 's motives . In the
first phase , before the President fired Corney, the President had been assured that the FBI had not
opened an investigation of him personally . The President deemed it critically important to make
public that he was not under investigation, and he included that information in his termination
letter to Corney after other efforts to have that information disclosed were unsuccessful.
Soon after he fired Corney , however , the President became aware that investigators were
conducting an obstruction -of-justice inquiry into his own conduct. That awareness marked a
significant change in the President's conduct and the start of a second phase of action. The
President launched public attacks on the investigation and individuals involved in it who could
possess evidence adverse to the President , while in private, the President engaged in a series of
targeted efforts to control the investigation. For instance , the President attempted to remove the
Special Counsel; he sought to have Attorney General Sessions unrecuse himself and limit the
investigation ; he sought to prevent public disclosure of information about the June 9, 2016 meeting
between Russians and campaign officials; and he used public forums to attack potential witnesses
who might offer adverse information and to praise witnesses who declined to cooperate with the
government. Judgments about the nature of the President ' s motives during each phase would be
informed by the totality of the evidence.

158

