U.S. Department of Justice
AttorHey Work Proettet II May CoH:t1:tiH
Material Proteetee UHeer Fee. R. Crim..P. 6(e)

foreign policy speech at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington , D.C. , in April 2016 , and that it is
possible that they met briefly at that reception .
The Office considered whether, in light of these interactions , Sessions committed perjury
before, or made false statements to, Congress in connection with his confirmation as Attorney
General. In January 2017 testimony during his confirmation hearing, Sessions stated in response
to a question about Trump Campaign communications with the Russian government that he had
"been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I didn 't have - did not have
communications with the Russians ." In written responses submitted on January 17, 2017 , Sessions
answered "[n]o" to a question asking whether he had "been in contact with anyone connected to
any part of the Russian government about the 2016 election , either before or after election day. "
And , in a March 2017 supplement to his testimony, Sessions identified two of the campaign-period
contacts with Ambassador Kislyak noted above , which had been reported in the media following
the January 2017 confirmation hearing . Sessions stated in the supplemental response that he did
"not recall any discussions with the Russian Ambassador, or any other representatives of the
Russian government , regarding the political campaign on these occasions or any other occasion."
Although the investigation established that Sessions interacted with Kislyak on the
occasions described above and that Kislyak mentioned the presidential campaign on at least one
occasion, the evidence is not sufficient to prove that Sessions gave knowingly false answers to
Russia-related questions in light of the wording and context of those questions. With respect to
Sessions ' s statements that he did "not recall any discussions with the Russian Ambassador .. .
regarding the political campaign" and he had not been in contact with any Russian official "about
the 2016 election ," the evidence concerning the nature of Sessions's interactions with Kislyak
makes it plausible that Sessions did not recall discussing the campaign with Kislyak at the time of
his statements. Similarly, while Sessions stated in his January 2017 oral testimony that he "did
not have communications with Russians ," he did so in response to a question that had linked such
communications to an alleged "continuing exchange of information" between the Trump
Campaign and Russian government intermediaries. Sessions later explained to the Senate and to
the Office that he understood the question as narrowly calling for disclosure of interactions with
Russians that involved the exchange of campaign information , as distinguished from more routine
contacts with Russian nationals. Given the context in which the question was asked , that
understanding is plausible.
Accordingly, the Office concluded that the evidence was insufficient to prove that Sessions
was willfully untruthful in his answers and thus insufficient to obtain or sustain a conviction for
perjury or false statements. Consistent with the Principles of Federal Prosecution, the Office
therefore determined not to pursue charges against Sessions and informed his counsel of that
decision in March 2018.

vii. Others Interviewed During the Investigation
The Office considered whether , during the course of the investigation , other individuals
interviewed either omitted material information or provided information determined to be false .
Applying the Principles of Federal Prosecution, the Office did not seek criminal charges against
any individuals other than those listed above. In some instances , that decision was due to
198

