U.S. Department of Justice
Attst1fl:e~·
\llsrk Pwettet // May Csfl:tttifl:Matet1ial Pt1steetee Ufl:eerFee. R. Ct1iffi.P. 6(e)

iv. Were you told that the June 9 meeting was about, in whole or in part,
adoption and/or the Magnitsky Act? If yes, describe who you had that
discussion with, when, and the substance of the discussion.
d. For the period June 6, 2016 through June 9, 2016, for what portion of each day
were you in Trump Tower?
i. Did you speak or meet with Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared
Kushner on June 9, 2016? If yes, did any portion of any of those
conversations or meetings include any reference to any aspect of the June
9 meeting? If yes, describe who you spoke with and the substance of the
conversation.
e. Did you communicate directly or indirectly with any member or representative of
the Agalarovfamily after June 3, 2016? If yes, describe who you spoke with, when,
and the substance of the communication.
f.

Did you learn of any communications between Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort,
or Jared Kushner and any member or representative of the Agalarov family,
Natalia Veselnitskaya, Rob Goldstone, or any Russian official or contact that took
place after June 9, 2016 and concerned the June 9 meeting or efforts by Russia to
assist the campaign? If yes, describe who you learned this information from ,
when, and the substance of what you learned.

g. On June 7, 2016, you gave a speech in which you said, in part, "I am going to give
a major speech on probably Monday of next week and we're going to be discussing
all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons ."
i. Why did you make that statement?
ii. What information did you plan to share with respect to the Clintons?
iii. What did you believe the source(s) of that information would be?
iv. Did you expect any of the information to have come from the June 9
meeting?
v. Did anyone help draft the speech that you were referring to? If so, who?
vi. Why did you ultimately not give the speech you referenced on June 7,
2016?
h. Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or
the Russian government supported your candidacy or opposed the candidacy of
Hillary Clinton? If yes, describe the source(s) of the information, when you were
informed, and the content of such discussion(s).
i.

Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that any foreign
government or foreign leader, other than Russia or Vladimir Putin, had provided,
wished to provide, or offered to provide tangible support to your campaign,
including by way of offering to provide negative information on Hillary Clinton? If

C-4

