U.S. Department of Justice
AttefHey Wed( PFea1:1et// May CtmtaiH Material Preteetea Uttaer Fee. R. Crilfl. P. 6(e)

did not believe his response to the offer and the June 9 meeting itself violated the law. Given his
less direct involvement in arranging the June 9 meeting, Kushner could likely mount a similar
defense. And, while Manafort is experienced with political campaigns , the Office has not
developed evidence showing that he had relevant knowledge of these legal issues.

iii. Difficulties in Valuing Promised Information
The Office would also encounter difficulty proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the
value of the promised documents and information exceeds the $2,000 threshold for a criminal
violation , as well as the $25,000 threshold for felony punishment. See 52 U.S.C. § 30109(d)(l).
The type of evidence commonly used to establish the value of non-monetary contributions-such
as pricing the contribution on a commercial market or determining the upstream acquisition cost
or the cost of distribution-would likely be unavailable or ineffective in this factual setting.
Although damaging opposition research is surely valuable to a campaign, it appears that the
information µltimately delivered in the meeting was not valuable. And while value in a conspiracy
may well be measured by what the participants expected to receive at the time of the agreement ,
see, e.g., United States v. Tombrello, 666 F.2d 485,489 (11th Cir. 1982), Goldstone's description
of the offered material here was quite general. His suggestion of the information's value-i.e.,
that it would " incriminate Hillary " and "would be very useful to [Trump Jr.' s] father"-was nonspecific and may have been understood as being of uncertain worth or reliability, given
Goldstone's Jack of direct access to the original source. The uncertainty over what would be
delivered could be reflected in Trump Jr. ' s response ("if it 's what you say I love it") (emphasis
added) .
Accordingly , taking into account the high burden to establish a culpable mental state in a
campaign-finance prosecution and the difficulty in establishing the required valuation, the Office
decided not to pursue criminal campaign-finance charges against Trump Jr. or other campaign
officials for the events culminating in the June 9 meeting .

c. Application to Harm to Ongoing Matter

Harm to Ongoing Matter

188

