U.S. Department of Justice
At:t:ofHe~
· Wofk Pfotlttet // May CoHtttiHMaterial Proteetetl UH.defFeel. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

WRITTEN QUESTIONS TO BE ANSWERED UNDER OATH BY PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP

I.

June 9, 2016 Meeting at Trump Tower

a. When did you first learn that Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared Kushner
was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially
negative information about Hillary Clinton? Describe who you learned the
information from and the substance of the discussion.
b. Attached to this document as Exhibit A is a series of emails from June 2016
between, among others, Donald Trump, Jr. and Rob Goldstone. In addition to the
emails reflected in Exhibit A, Donald Trump, Jr. had other communications with
Rob Goldstone and Emin Agalarov between June 3, 2016, and June 9, 2016 .
i. Did Mr. Trump, Jr. or anyone else tell you about or show you any of these
communications? If yes, describe who discussed the communications with
you, when, and the substance of the discussion(s).
ii. When did you first see or learn about all or any part of the emails reflected
in Exhibit A?
iii . When did you first learn that the proposed meeting involved or was
described as being part of Russia and its government's support for your
candidacy?
iv. Did you suggest to or direct anyone not to discuss or release publicly all or
any portion of the emails reflected in Exhibit A? If yes, describe who you
communicated with , when, the substance of the communication(s), and
why you took that action.
c. On June 9, 2016, Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner attended a
meeting at Trump Tower with several individuals, including a Russian lawyer,
Natalia Veselnitskaya (the "June 9 meeting").
i. Other than as set forth in your answers to I.a and l.b, what, if anything,
were you told about the possibility of this meeting taking place, or the
scheduling of such a meeting? Describe who you discussed this with,
when, and what you were informed about the meeting.
ii. When did you learn that some of the individuals attending the June 9
meeting were Russian or had any affiliation with any part of the Russian
government? Describe who you learned this information from and the
substance of the discussion(s).
iii. What were yol! told about what was discussed at the June 9 meeting?
Describe each conversation in which you were told about what was
discussed at the meeting, who the conversation was with, when it
occurred, and the substance of the statements they made about the
meeting .

C-3

