U.S. Department of Justice
Att:erHe)' Werk Pretittet // Ma)' CeHtaiH Material Prnteetea UHtier Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

K.

The President's Conduct Involving Michael Cohen
Overview

The President's conduct involving Michael Cohen spans the full period of our
investigation. During the campaign, Cohen pursued the Trump Tower Moscow project on behalf
of the Trump Organization . Cohen briefed candidate Trump on the project numerous times ,
including discussing whether Trump should travel to Russia to advance the deal. After the media
began questioning Trump ' s connections to Russia , Cohen promoted a "party line" that publicly
distanced Trump from Russia and asserted he had no business there. Cohen continued to adhere
to that party line in 2017 , when Congress asked him to provide documents and testimony in its
Russia investigation. In an attempt to minimize the President's connections to Russia, Cohen
submitted a letter to Congress falsely stating that he only briefed Trump on the Trump Tower
Moscow project three times, that he did not consider asking Trump to travel to Russia, that Cohen
had not received a response to an outreach he made to the Russian government, and that the project
ended in January 2016, before the first Republican caucus or primary . While working on the
congressional statement , Cohen had extensive discussions with the President's personal counsel,
who, according to Cohen , said that Cohen should not contradict the President and should keep the
statement short and "tight." After the FBI searched Cohen ' s home and office in April 2018 , the
President publicly asserted that Cohen would not "flip" and privately passed messages of support
to him . Cohen also discussed pardons with the President's personal counsel and believed that if
he stayed on message, he would get a pardon or the President would do "something else " to make
the investigation end. But after Cohen began cooperating with the government in July 2018 , the
President publicly criticized him, called him a "rat," and suggested his family members had
committed crimes .

Evidence
1. Candidate Trump's
Moscow Project

Awareness of and Involvement

m the Trump Tower

The President ' s interactions with Cohen as a witness took place against the background of
the President's involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project.
As described in detail in Volume I, Section IV.A. I, supra, from September 2015 until at
least June 2016, the Trump Organization pursued a Trump Tower Moscow project in Russia, with
negotiations conducted by Cohen, then-executive vice president of the Trump Organization and
special counsel to Donald J. Trump. 909
The Trump Organization had previously and
909
In August 2018 and November 2018, Cohen pleaded guilty to multiple crimes of deception ,
including making false statement s to Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project , as described later
in this section. When Cohen first met with investigators from this Office , he repeated the same lies he told
Congress about the Trump Tower Moscow project. Cohen 8/7 / 18 302, at 12-17. But after Cohen pleaded
guilty to offenses in the Southern District ofNew York on August 21, 2018, he met with investigators again
and corrected the record . The Office found Cohen's testimony in these subsequent proffer sessions to be
consistent with and corroborated by other information obtained in the course of the Office's investigation.
The Office's sentencing submission in Cohen's criminal case stated: "Starting with his second meeting with
the [Special Counsel ' s Office] in September 2018 , the defendant has accepted responsibility not only for

134

