U.S. Department of Justice

At:tet1He)'
Werle Pt1etiuet// Mtl)'"CeHtflifl:Matet1ialPt1eteetetiUHtiet1Fecl.R. Ct1im.P. 6(e)
1

safeguarding the integrity of the criminal justice system , we conducted a thorough factual
investigation in order to preserve the evidence when memories were fresh and documentary
materials were available .

Third, we considered whether to evaluate the conduct we investigated under the Justice
Manual standards governing prosecution and declination decisions, but we determined not to apply
an approach that could potentially result in a judgment that the President committed crimes. The
threshold step under the Justice Manual standards is to assess whether a person's conduct
"constitutes a federal offense." U.S . Dep't of Justice, Justice Manual§ 9-27.220 (2018) (Justice
Manual) . Fairness concerns counseled against potentially reaching that judgment when no charges
can be brought. The ordinary means for an individual to respond to an accusation is through a
speedy and public trial , with all the procedural protections that surround a criminal case. An
individual who believes he was wrongly accused can use that process to seek to clear his name. In
contrast, a prosecutor's judgment that crimes were committed, but that no charges will be brought ,
affords no such adversarial opportunity for public name -clearing before an impartial adjudicator.5
The concerns about the fairness of such a determination would be heightened in the case
of a sitting President , where a federal prosecutor's accusation of a crime , even in an internal report ,
could carry consequ ences that extend beyond the rea lm of criminal justice. OLC noted similar
concerns about sealed indictments. Ev en if an indictment were sealed during the President ' s term,
OLC reasoned, "it would be very difficult to preserve [an indictment's] secrecy ," and if an
indictment becam e public, "[t]he stigma and opprobrium" could imperil the President ' s ability to
govern ."6 Although a prosecutor ' s internal report would not represent a formal public accusation
akin to an indictment , the possibility of the report's public disclosure and the absence of a neutral
adjudicatory forum to review its findings counseled against potentially determining "that the
person ' s conduct constitutes a federal offense ." Justice Manual § 9-27.220.

Fourth, if we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President
clearly did not commit obstruction of justice , we would so state. Based on the facts and the
applicable legal standards , however , we are unable to reach that judgment. The evidence we
obtained about the President ' s actions and intent presents difficult issues that prevent us from
conclusively determining that no criminal conduct occurred . Accordingly, while this report does
not conclude that the President committed a crime , it also does not exonerate him.
*

*

*

This report on our investigation consists of four parts . Section I provides an overview of
obstruction-of-justice
principles and summarizes certain investigatory and evidentiary
considerations. Section II sets forth the factual results of our obstruction investigation and
analyzes the evidence. Section TITaddresses statutory and constitutional defenses . Section IV
states our conclusion.
5

For that reason, criticisms have been lodged against the practice of naming unindicted coconspirators in an indictment. See United States v. Briggs, 514 F.2d 794, 802 (5th Cir. 1975) ("The courts
have struck down with strong language efforts by grand juries to accuse persons of crime while affording
them no forum in which to vindicate themselve s."); see also Justice Manual § 9-11.130.
6

OLC Op. at 259 & n.38 (citation omitted).
2

