U.S. Department of Justice
A~erfle~· '}fork Pretittet // May CeHtaiR Material Preteeteti UHtier Fee. R. Crim. P . 6(e)

possessed information damaging to the President that would give the President a personal incentive
to end the FBl ' s inquiry into Flynn's conduct.
Evidence does establish that the President connected the Flynn investigation to the FBl's
broader Russia investigation and that he believed, as he told Christie, that terminating Flynn would
end "the whole Russia thing." Flynn's firing occurred at a time when the media and Congress
were raising questions about Russia's interference in the election and whether members of the
President 's campaign had colluded with Russia. Multiple witnesses recalled that the President
viewed the Russia investigations as a challenge to the legitimacy of his election. The President
paid careful attention to negative coverage of Flynn and reacted with annoyance and anger when
the story broke disclosing that Flynn had discussed sanctions with Kislyak. Just hours before
meeting one-on-one with Corney, the President told Christie that firing Flynn would put an end to
the Russia inquiries. And after Christie pushed back, telling the President that firing Flynn would
not end the Russia investigation , the President asked Christie to reach out to Corney and convey
that the President liked him and he was part of "the team." That afternoon , the President cleared
the room and asked Corney to "let[] Flynn go ."
We also sought evidence relevant to assessing whether the President's direction to Corney
was motivated by sympathy towards Flynn. In public statements the President repeatedly
described Flynn as a good person who had been harmed by the Russia investigation, and the
President directed advisors to reach out to Flynn to tell him the President "care[ d]"
about him and felt bad for him. At the same time, multiple senior advisors, including Bannon ,
Priebus , and Hicks , said that the President had become unhappy with Flynn well before Flynn was
forced to resign and that the President was frequently irritated with Flynn . Priebus said he believed
the President ' s initial reluctance to fire Flynn stemmed not from personal regard, but from concern
about the negative press that would be generated by firing the National Security Advisor so early
in the Administration. And Priebus indicated that the President's post-firing expressions of
support for Flynn were motivated by the President's desire to keep Flynn from saying negative
things about him.
The way in which the President communicated the request to Corney also is relevant to
understanding the President's intent. When the President first learned about the FBI investigation
into Flynn , he told McGahn, Bannon, and Priebus not to discuss the matter with anyone else in the
White House. The next day, the President invited Corney for a one-on-one dinner against the
advice of an aide who recommended that other White House officials also attend. At the dinner,
the President asked Corney for "l_oyalty " and, at a different point in the conversation , mentioned
that Flynn had judgment issues. When the President met with Corney the day after Flynn's
termination - shortly after being told by Christie that firing Flynn would not end the Russia
investigation-the
President cleared the room, even excluding the Attorney General , so that he
could again speak to Corney alone. The President's decision to meet one-on-one with Corney
contravened the advice of the White House Counsel that the President should not communicate
directly with the Department of Justice to avoid any appearance of interfering in law enforcement
activities. And the President later denied that he cleared the room and asked Corney to " let[] Flynn
go"-a denial that would have been unnecessary if he believed his request was a proper exercise
of prosecutorial discretion.

47

