U.S. Department of Justice
Att:erHe~·Werk Preclttet // Mtty CefttaiHMatet·ial Preteetecl l.JHclerFecl. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

2. Other Potential Campaign Interest in Russian Hacked Materials
Throughout 2016, the Trump Campaign expressed interest in Hillary Clinton ' s private
email server and whether approximately 30,000 emails from that server had in fact been
permanently destroyed, as reported by the media. Several individuals associated with the
Campaign were contacted in 2016 about various efforts to obtain the missing Clinton emails and
other stolen material in support of the Trump Campaign. Some of these contacts were met with
sk~pticism, and nothing came of them; others were pursued to some degree. The investigation did
not find evidence that the Trump Campaign recovered any s~ch Clinton emails, or that these
contacts were part of a coordinated effort between Russia and the Trump Campaign.

a. Henry Oknyansky (a/k/a Henry Greenberg)
In the spring of 2016, Trump Campaign advisor Michael Caputo learned throu gh a Floridabased Russian business partner that another Florida-based Russian , Henry Oknyansky (who also
went by the name Henry Greenberg) , claimed to have information pertaining to Hillary Clinton .
Caputo notified Roger Stone and brokered communication between Stone and Oknyansky .
Oknyansky and Stone set up a May 2016 in-person meeting. 260
Oknyansky was accompanied to the meeting by Alexei Rasin , a Ukrainian associate
involved in Florida real estate. At the meeting, Rasin offered to sell Stone derogatory information
on Clinton that Rasin claimed to have obtained while working for Clinton. Rasin claimed to
possess financial statements demonstrating Clinton's involvement in money laundering with
Rasin's companies. According to Oknyansky , Stone asked if the amounts in question totaled
millions of dollars but was told it was closer to hundreds of thousands. Stone refused the offer,
stating that Trump would not pay for opposition research. 261
Oknyansky claimed to the Office that Rasin ' s motivation was financial. According to
Oknyansky, Rasin had tried unsuccessfully to shop the Clinton information around to other
interested parties , and Oknyansky would receive a cut if the information was sold .262 Rasin is
noted in public source documents as the director and/or registered agent for a number of Florida
companies , none of which appears to be connected to Clinton . The Office found no other evidence
that Rasin worked for Clinton or any Clinton-related entities.
In their statements to investigators, Oknyansky and Caputo had contradictory recollections
about the meeting. Oknyansky claimed that Caputo accompanied Stone to the meeting and
provided an introduction, whereas Caputo did not tell us that he had attended and claimed that he
was never told what information Oknyansky offered. Caputo also stated that he was unaware
Oknyansky sought to be paid for the information until Stone informed him after the fact.263

°Caputo 5/2/ 18 302 , at 4; Oknyansky

26

7/13/18 302, at 1.

261

Oknyansky 7/ 13/18 302 , at 1-2.

262

Oknyansk y 7/ 13/ 18 302 , at 2.

263

Caputo 5/2/18 302, at 4; Oknyansky 7/13/ 18 302, at 1.

61

