U.S. Department of Justice
AUeffl'le~·
Werk Prstittet // Ma:yCsl'l:ta:il'l:
Materittl Prsteeteti Ul'l:tierFeti. R. Crim. P. 6(e)
government supported your candidacy or opposed the candidacy of Hillary Clinton? If yes,
describe the source(s) of the information. when you were informed, and the content of such
discussion(s).
1.

Did any person or entity inform you during the campaign that any foreign government or
foreign leader, other than Russia or Vladimir Putin, had provided, wished to provide, or
offered to provide tangible support to your campaign, including by way of offering to
provide negative information on Hillary Clinton? If yes, describe the source(s) of the
information, when you were informed, and the content of such discussion(s).

Response to Question l, Parts (a) through (c)

I have no recollection of learning at the time that Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Jared
Kushner was considering participating in a meeting in June 2016 concerning potentially negative
information about Hillary Clinton. Nor do I recall learning during the campaign that the June 9,
20 16 meeting had taken place, that the referenced emails existed. or that Donald J. Trump, Jr., had
other communications with Emin Agalarov or Robert Goldstone betw·een June 3, 2016 and June
9, 20 16.
Response to Question I, Part (d)

I have no independent recollection of what portion of these four days in June of 2016 I spent in
Trump Tower. This was one of many busy months during a fast-paced campaign, as the primary
season was ending and we were preparing for the general election campaign.
I am now aware that my Campaign' s calendar indicates that I was in New York City from June 6
- 9, 2016. Calendars kept in my Trump Tower office reflect that I had various calls and meetings
scheduled for each of these days. While those calls and meetings may or may not actually have
taken place, they do indicate that I was in Trump Tower during a portion of each of these working
days, and I have no reason to doubt that I was. When I was in New York City, I stayed at my
Trump Tower apartment.
My Trump Organization desk calendar also reflects that I was outside Trump Tower during
portions of these days. The June 7, 20 16 calendar indicates I was scheduled to leave Trump Tower
in the early evening for Westchester where I gave remarks after winning the California, New
Jersey, New Mexico, Montana, and South Dakota Republican primaries held that day. The June 8,
2016 calendar indicates a scheduled departure in late afternoon to attend a ceremony at my son's
school. The June 9, 20 16 calendar indicates I was scheduled to attend midday meetings and a
fundraising luncheon at the Four Seasons Hotel. At this point, I do not remember on what dates
these events occurred, but I do not currently have a reason to doubt that they took place as
scheduled on my calendar.
Widely available media reports, including television footage, also shed light on my activities
during these days. For example, I am aware that my June 7, 2016 victory remarks at the Trump

8

C-13

