U.S. Department of Justice
Aft:6mey W6rk Pr6et:tet// Mtty C6HtaiHMatel'ial P1'6teetee UHeer Fee. R. Crim. P. 6Ee)

D.

Events Leading Up To and Surrounding the Termination of FBI Director
Corney
Overview

Corney was scheduled to testify before Congress on May 3, 2017. Leading up to that
testimony , the President continued to tell advisors that he wanted Corney to make public that the
President was not under investigation. At the hearing, Corney declined to answer questions about
the scope or subjects of the Russia investigation and did not state publicly that the President was
not under investigation . Two days later , on May 5, 2017, the President told close aides he was
going to fire Corney, and on May 9, he did so, using his official termination letter to make public
that Corney had on three occasions informed the President that he was not under investigation .
The President decided to fire Corney before receiving advice or a recommendation from the
Department of Justice , but he approved an initial public account of the termination that attributed
it to a recommendation from the Department of Justice based on Corney ' s handling of the Clinton
email investigation. After Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein resisted attributing the firing
to his recommendation, the President acknowledged that he intended to fire Corney regardless of
the DOJ recommendation and was thinking of the Russia investigation when he made the decision.
The President also told the Russian Foreign Minister, "I just fired the head of the F.B.l. He was
crazy , a real nut job . [ faced great pressure because of Russia. That's taken off ... . . I'm not
under investigation. "

Evidence
I . Corney Testifies Before the Senate Judiciary Committee and Declines to
Answer Questions About Whether the President is Under Investigation
On May 3, 2017, Corney was scheduled to testify at an FBI oversight hearing before the
Senate Judiciary Committee .383 McGahn recalled that in the week leading up to the hearing , the
President said that it would be the last straw if Corney did not take the opportunity to set the record
straight by publicly announcing that the President was not under investigation .384 The President
had previously told McGahn that the perception that the President was under investigation was
hurting his abil ity to carry out his presidential duties and deal with foreign leaders. 385 At the
hearing, Corney declined to answer questions about the status of the Russia investigation, stating
"[t]he Department of Justice ha[ d] authorized [him] to confirm that [the Russia investigation]
exists ," but that he was "not going to say another word about it" until the investigation was
completed. 386 Corney also declined to answer questions about whether investigators had "ruled
383

Hearing on Oversight of the FBI before the Senate Judiciary Committee, I 15th Cong . (May 3,

384

McGahn 12/12/ 17 302, at 10-11.

2017).

385

McGahn 12/ 12/ 17 302, at 7, 10-11 (McGahn believed that two foreign leaders had expressed
sympathy to the President for being under investigation); SC_AD_00265 (Donaldson 4/11/17 Notes) ("P
Called Corney - Day we told him not to? 'You are not under investigation' NK/China/Sapping
Credibility").
386

Hearing on FBI Oversight Before the Senate Judiciary Committee, 115th Cong. (CQ Cong.
Transcripts, at 70) (May 3, 2017) (testimony by FBI Director James Corney). Corney repeated this point

62

