U.S. Department of Justice
AttorHe,· 'Nork ProE:ittet// May CotttttiHMttterittlProteeteE:iUttE:ierFee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Manafort also twice met Kilimnik in the United States during the campaign period and
conveyed campaign information. The second meeting took place on August 2, 2016, in New York
City. Kilimnik requested the meeting to deliver in person a message from former Ulaainian
President Viktor Yanukovych, who was then living in Russia. The message was about a peace
plan for Ukraine that Manafort has since acknowledged was a "backdoor " means for Russia to
control eastern Ukraine. Several months later, after the presidential election , Kilimnik wrote an
email to Manafort expressing the view-which Manafort later said he shared-that the plan's
success would require U.S. support to succeed: "all that is required to start the process is a very
minor ' wink' (or slight push) from [Donald Trump]." 840 The email also stated that if Manafort
were designated as the U.S. representative and started the process , Yanukovych would ensure his
reception in Russia "at the very top level."
Manafort communicated with Kilimnik about peace plans for Ukraine on at least four
occasions after their first discussion of the topic on August 2: December 2016 (the Kilimnik email
described above) ; January 2017; February 2017; and again in the spring of 2018. The Office
reviewed numerous Manafort email and text communications , and asked President Trump about
the plan in written questions. 841 The investigation did not uncover evidence ofManafort ' s passing
along information about Ukrainian peace plans to the candidate or anyone else in the Campaign or
the Administration. The Office was not, however, able to gain access to all of Manafort' s
electronic communications (in some instances, messages were sent using encryption applications).
And while Manafort denied that he spoke to members of the Trump Campaign or the new
Administration about the peace plan, he lied to the Office and the grand jury about the peace plan
and his meetings with Kilimnik, and his unreliability on this subject was among the reasons that
the district judge found that he breached his cooperation agreement. 842
The Office could not reliably determine Manafort ' s ur ose in sharin internal oiling data
with Kilimnik during the campaign period. Manafort
did not see
a downside to sharing campaign information , and told Gates that his role in the Campaign would

841

According to the President's written answers, he does not remember Manafort communicating
to him any particular positions that Ukraine or Russia would want the United States to support. Written
Responses of Donald J. Trump (Nov. 20, 2018), at 16-17 (Response to Question IV, Part (d)).
842

Manafort made several false statements during debriefings. Based on that conduct, the Office
determined that Manafort had breached his plea agreement and could not be a cooperating witness. The
judge presiding in Manafort's D .C. criminal case found by a preponderance of the evidence that Manafort
intentionally made multiple false statements to the FBI, the Office , and the grand jury concerning his
interactions and communications with Kilimnik (and concerning two other issues) . Although the report
refers at times to Manafort's statements, it does so only when those statements are sufficiently corroborated
to be trustworthy , to identify issues on which Manafort's untruthful responses may themselves be of
evidentiary value, or to provide Manafort 's explanations for certain events , even when we were unable to
determine whether that explanation was credible.

130

