U.S. Department of Justice

AM:orHe:,r
Work Proattet // Ma)' CoHtaiHMaterial Proteetea UHaer Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

other campaign-related matters. The inquiry would not turn on what Attorney General Sessions
would actually do if unrecused, but on wheth er the efforts to reverse his recusal would naturally
have had the effect of impeding the Russia investigation.
On multipl e occasions in 2017, the President spoke with Sessions about reversing his
recusal so that he could take over the Russia investigation and begin an investigation and
prosecution of Hillary Clinton. For example , in early summer 2017, Sessions recalled the
President asking him to unrecuse , but Sessions did not take it as a directive. When the President
raised the issue again in December 2017 , the President said, as recorded by Porter, "Not telling
you to do anything .. . . I'm not going to get involved. I' m not going to do anything or direct you
to do anything . I just want to be treated fairly ." The duration of the President 's efforts - which
spanned from March 2017 to August 2018-and the fact that the President repeatedly criticized
Sessions in public and in private for failing to tell the President that he would have to recuse is
relevant to assessing whether the President ' s efforts to have Sessions unrecuse could qualify as
obstructive acts.
b. Nexus to an official proceeding. As described above , by mid-June 2017 , the existence
of a grand jury investigation sup ervised by the Special Counsel was public knowledge . In addition ,
in July 2017, a different grand jury supervised by the Special Counsel was empaneled in the
District of Columbia, and th e press reported on the existenc e of this grand jury in early August
2017. 776 Whether the conduct towards the Attorney General would have a foreseeable impact on
those proceedings turns on much of th e same evidence discussed above with respect to the
obstructive-act element.
c. Intent. There is evidence that at least one purpose of the President ' s conduct toward
Sessions was to have Sessions assume control over the Russia investigation and supervise it in a
way that would restrict its scope . By the summer of 2017 , the President was aware that the Special
Counsel was investigating him personally for obstruction of justice. And in the wake of the
disclosur es of emails about the June 9 meeting between Russians and senior members of the
campaign, see Volume II, Section TI.G, supra, it was evident that the investigation into the
campaign now included the President ' s son , son-in-law, and former campaign manager. The
President had previously and unsuccessfully sought to have Sessions publicly announce that the
Special Counsel investigation would be confined to futur e election interference. Yet Sessions
remained recused. In December 2017 , shortly after Flynn pleaded guilty , the President spoke to
Sessions in the Oval Office with only Porter present and told Sessions that he would be a hero if
he unrecused. Porter linked that reque st to the President 's desire that Sessions take back
supervision of the Russia investigation and direct an investigation of Hillary Clinton. The
President said in that meeting that he "just want[ ed] to be treated fairly ," which could reflect his
perception that it was unfair that he was being investigated while Hillary Clinton was not. But a
principal effect of that act would be to restore supervision of the Russia investigation to the
Attorney General-a position that the President frequently suggested should be occupied by
someone like Eric Holder and Bobby Kennedy , who the President described as protecting their
776 E.g.,

Del Quentin Wilbur & Byron Tau, Sp ecial Counsel Robert Muelle r Impanels Washingt on
Grand Jury in Russia Prob e, Wall Street Journal (Aug. 3, 2017) ; Carol D. Leonni g et al., Special Couns el
Muelle r using grand jury in f ederal court in Washington as part of Rus sia investigation, Washington Post
(Aug. 3, 2017) .

112

