U.S. Department of Justice
Attonw,· 'Nork PfoElttet// May Cotttaifl Material ProteeteEIUt1ElerFeEI.R. Crifl'I.P. 6(e)
with input from various outside advisors and was based on publicly available material, including,
in particular, information from the book CUnton Cash by Peter Schweizer.
The Pulse Nightclub terrorist attack took place in the early morning hours of Sunday, June 12,
2016. In light of that tragedy, I gave a speech directed more specifically to national security and
terrorism than to the Clintons. That speech was delivered at the Saint Anselm College Institute of
Politics in Manchester, New Hampshire, and, as repo1ted, opened with the following:
This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President,
especially in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be. Even her
former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress,
has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be president. There will
be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will
deliver that speech soon. But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing
threat of terrorism inside of our borders.
l continued to speak about Mrs. Clinton's failings throughout the campaign, using the information
prepared for inclusion in the speech to which I referred on June 7, 2016.
Response to Question I, Part (h)

I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that Vladimir Putin or the Russian
government "suppo1ted" my candidacy or "opposed" the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. However,
I was aware of some reports indicating that President Putin had made complimentary statements
about me.
Response to Question I, Part (i)

I have no recollection of being told during the campaign that any foreign government or foreign
leader had provided, wished to provide, or offered to provide tangible support to my campaign.
II.

Russian Hacking/ Russian Efforts Using Social Media / WikiLeaks

a.

On June 14, 2016, it was publicly reported that computer hackers had penetrated the
computer network of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and that Russian
intelligence was behind the unauthorized access, or hack. Prior to June 14, 2016, were you
provided any information about any potential or actual hacking of the computer systems or
email accounts of the DNC, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC),
the Clinton Campaign, Hillary Clinton, or individuals associated with the Clinton
campaign? 1f yes, describe who provided this information, when, and the substance of the
information.

10

C-15

