U.S. Department of Justice
AttorAey Work Produet // Ma; CoAtait'iMaterial Proteeted UAder Fed. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)
1

Boyarkin, Viktor

Employee of Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska.

Boyd, Charles

Chairman of the board of directors at the Center for the National Interest,
a U.S.-based think tank with operations in and connections to Russia.

Boyko, Yuriy

Member of the Ukrainian political party Opposition Bloc and member of
the Ukrainian parliament.

Brand, Rachel

Associate Attorney General (May 2017 - Feb. 2018).

Browder, William
(Bill)

Founder of Hermitage Capital Management who lobbied in favor of the
Magnitsky Act, which imposed financial and travel sanctions on Russian
officials.

Bulatov, Alexander

Russian intelligence official who associated with Carter Page in 2008 .

Burchik, Mikhail

Executive director of the Internet Research Agenc y, which engaged in an
"active measures" social media campaign to interfere in the 2016 U.S.
presidential election.

Burck, William

Personal attorney to Don McGahn, White House Counsel.

Burnham, James

Attorney in the White House Counsel's Office who attended January
2017 meetings between Sally Yates and Donald McGahn.

Burt, Richard

Former U.S. ambassador who had done work Alfa-Bank and was a board
member of the Center for the National Interest.

Bystrov, Mikhail

General director of the Internet Research Agency, which engaged in an
"active measures" social media campaign to interfere in the 2016 U.S.
presidential election.

Calamari, Matt

Chief operating officer for the Trump Organization.

Caputo, Michael

Trump Campaign advisor.

Chaika, Yuri

Prosecutor general of the Russian Federation who also maintained a
relationship with Aras Agalarov.

Christie, Chris

Former Governor of New Jersey .

Clapper, James

Director of National Intelligence (Aug. 2010-Jan.

Clovis, Samuel Jr.

Chief policy advisor and national co-chair of the Trump Campaign.

Coats, Dan

Director of National Intelligence .

Cobb,Ty

Special Counsel to the President (July 2017 - May 2018).

Cohen, Michael

Former vice president to the Trump Organization and special counsel to
Donald Trump who spearheaded an effort to build a Trump-branded
property in Moscow . He admitted to lying to Congress about the project.

Corney, James Jr.

Director of the Federal Bureau oflnvestigation
2017).

B-2

2017).

(Sept. 4, 2013 - May 9,

