U.S. Department of Justice
AMerHe,·Werk Precltiet // M!ij· Cet1:tait1:
Material Preteetecl Ut1:cler
Fed. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

company, and had been previously employed as an aide and press secretary to Russia's energy
minister. Ivanka Trump forwarded the email to Cohen. 335 He told the Office that, after receiving
this inquiry, he had conducted an internet search for Klokov's name and concluded (incorrectly)
that Klokov was a former Olympic weightlifter. 336
Between November 18 and 19, 2015; Klokov and Cohen had at least one telephone call
and exchanged several emails. Describing himself in emails to Cohen as a "trusted person" who
could offer the Campaign "political synergy" and "synergy on a government level," Klokov
recommended that Cohen travel to Russia to speak with him and an unidentified intermediary.
Klokov said that those conversations could facilitate a later meeting in Russia between the
candidate and an individual Klokov described as "our person of interest." 337 In an email to the
Office, Erchova later identified the "person of interest " as Russian President Vladimir Putin. 338
In the telephone call and follow-on emails with Klokov, Cohen discussed his desire to use
a near-term trip to Russia to do site surveys and talk over the Trump Moscow project with local
developers. Cohen registered his willingness also to meet with Klokov and the unidentified
intermediary , but was emphatic that all meetings in Russia involving him or candidate Trump-including a possible meeting between candidate Trump and Putin-would need to be "in
conjunction with the development and an official visit" with the Trump Organization receiving a
formal invitation to visit. 339 (Klokov had written previously that "the visit [by candidate Trump
to Russia] has to be informal.") 340
Klokov had also previously recommended to Cohen that he separate their negotiations over
a possible meeting between Trump and "the person of interest" from any existing business track. 341
Re-emphasizing that his outreach was not done on behalf of any business, Klokov added in second
email to Cohen that, if publicized well, such a meeting could have "phenomenal" impact "in a
business dimension" and that the "person of interest['s]" "most important support" could have
significant ramifications for the "level of projects and their capacity." Klokov concluded by telling
335

11/16/15 Email, I. Trump to Cohen.

336
Cohen 8/7/18 302, at 17. During his interviews with the Office, Cohen still appeared to believe
that the Klokov he spoke with was that Olympian. The investigation, however, established that the email
address used to communicate with Cohen belongs to a different Dmitry Klokov, as described above.
337

11/18/15 Email, Klokov to Cohen (6:51 a.m.) .

338

In July 2018, the Office received an unsolicited email purporting to be from Erchova, in which
she wrote that "[a]t the end of2015 and beginning of2016 I was asked by my ex-husband to contact Ivanka
Trump . .. and offer cooperation to Trump's team on behalf of the Russian officials." 7/27/18 Email,
Erchova to Special Counsel ' s Office. The email claimed that the officials wanted to offer candidate Trump
"land in Crimea among other things and unofficial meeting with Putin ." Id. In order to vet the email's
claims, the Office responded requesting more details . The Office did not receive any reply.
339

11/18/15 Email, Cohen to Klokov (7:15 a.m.).

340

11/18/15 Email, Klokov to Cohen (6:51 a.m.).

341

11/18/15 Email, Klokov to Cohen (6:51 a.m.) ("I would suggest separating your negotiations
and our proposal to meet. I assure you, after the meeting level of projects and their capacity can be
completely different, having the most important support.").

73

