U.S. Department of Justice
At:torHey \l/ork Protlttet // Ma)'" CoRtaiH Material Proteetetl Unser Fetl. R . Crim . P. 6(e)

The President's concern about Cohen cooperating may have been directed
at the Southern District of New York investigation into other aspects of the President's dealings
with Cohen rather than an investigation of Trump Tower Moscow. There also is some evidence
that the President ' s concern about Cohen cooperating was based on the President's stated belief
that Cohen would provide false testimony against the President in an attempt to obtain a lesser
sentence for his unrelated criminal conduct. The President tweeted that Manafort, unlike Cohen ,
refused to "break " and "make up stories in order to get a ' deal."' And after Cohen pleaded guilty
to making false statements to Congress , the President said , "what [Cohen]'s trying to do is get a
reduced sentence. So he' s lying about a project that everybody knew about." But the President
also appeared to defend the underlying conduct, saying , "Even if [Cohen] was right , it doesn 't
matter because I was allowed to do whatever I wanted during the campaign." As described above,
there is evidence that the President knew that Cohen had made false statements about the Trump
Tower Moscow project and that Cohen did so to protect the President and minimize the President ' s
connections to Russia during the campaign.
111.

iv.
Finally, the President's statements insinuating that members of Cohen's
family committed crimes after Coh en began coop erating with the government could be viewed as
an effort to retaliate against Cohen and chill further testimony adverse to the President by Cohen
or others. It is possible that the President believes, as reflected in his tweets, that Cohen "ma[d]e[]
up stories" in order to get a deal for himself and "get his wife and father-in-law ... off Scott Free."
It also is possible that the President's mention of Cohen's wife and father-in-law were not intended
to affect Cohen as a witness but rather were part of a public-relations strategy aimed at discrediting
Cohen and deflecting attention away from the President on Cohen-related matters. But the
President's suggestion that Cohen ' s family members committed crimes happened more than once ,
including just before Cohen was sentenced (at the same time as the President stated that Cohen
"should, in my opinion , serve a full and complete sentence") and again just before Cohen was
scheduled to testify before Congress. The timing of the statements supports an inference that they
were intended at least in part to discourage Cohen from further cooperation.

L.

Overarching Factual Issues

Although this report does not contain a traditional prosecution decision or declination
decision, the evidence supports several general conclusions relevant to analysis of the facts
concerning the Presid ent's course of conduct.
1. Three features of this case render it atypical compared to the heartland obstruction-ofjustice prosecutions brought by the Department of Justice.
First, the conduct involved actions by the President. Some of the conduct did not implicate
the President's constitutional authority and raises garden-variety obstruction -of-justice issues.
Other events we investigated, however , drew upon the President's Article II authority, which
raised constitutional issues that we address in Volume TI, Section lll.B , infra. A factual analysis
of that conduct would have to take into account both that the President's acts were facially lawful
and that his position as head of the Executive Branch provides him with unique and powerful
means of influencing official proceedings, subordinate officers , and potential witnesses.

156

