U.S. Department of Justice

AM"6Ffl:e)'
W6rk Proettet // May CoHtaiHMateFial Pr6teetee UHeeFFee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Campaign was "in cahoots" with WikiLeaks in releasing damaging Clinton-related information
and responded, "Nothing could be further from the truth ." 53

4. After the Election, Trump Continues to Deny Any Contacts or Connections
with Russia or That Russia Aided his Election
On November 8, 2016, Trump was elected President. Two days later, Russian officials
told the press that the Russian government had maintained contacts with Trump ' s "immediate
entourage " during the campaign. 54 In response, Hope Hicks, who had been the Trump Campaign
spokesperson, said , "We are not aware of any campaign representatives that were in touch with
any foreign entities before yesterday , when Mr. Trump spoke with many world leaders. " 55 Hicks
gave an additional statement denying any contacts between the Campaign and Russia: "It never
happened. There was no communication between the campaign and any foreign entity during the
campaign." 56
On December 10, 2016 , the press reported that U.S. intelligence agencies had " concluded
that Russia interfered in last month 's presidential election to boost Do'nald Trump's bid for the
White House. " 57 Reacting to the story the next day, President -Elect Trump stated , "T think it's
ridiculous. I think it's just another excuse." 5 8 He continued that no one really knew who was
responsible for the hacking , suggesting that the intelligence community had "no idea if it's Russia
or China or somebody. It could be som ebody sitting in a bed some place." 59 The President-Elect

53

Louis Nelson, Pence denies Trump camp in cahoots with WikiLeaks, Politico (Oct. 14, 2016).

54

Ivan Nechepurenko, Russian Officials Were in Conta ct With Trump Allies , Diplomat Says, New
York Times (Nov. 10, 2016) (quoting Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov saying, "[t]here
were contacts" and "I cannot say that all, but a number of them maintained contacts with Russian
representatives"); Jim Heintz & Matthew Lee, Russia eyes better ties with Trump; says contacts underway,
Associated Press (Nov. 11, 2016) (quoting Ryabkov saying, "I don 't say that all of them, but a whole array
of them supported contacts with Russian representatives").
55

Ivan Nechepurenko , Russian Officials Were in Contact With Trump A llies, Diplomat Says , New
York Times (Nov. 11, 2016) (quoting Hicks).
56

Jim Heintz & Matthew Lee, Russia ey es better ties with Trump; says contacts underway,
Associated Press (Nov. l 0, 2016) (quoting Hicks). Hicks recalled that after she made that statement, she
spoke with Campaign advisors Kellyanne Conway, Stephen Miller, Jason Miller, and probably Kushner
and Bannon to ensure it was accurate, and there was no hesitation or pushback from any of them. Hicks
12/8/17 302 , at 4.
57

Damien Gayle, CIA concludes Russia interfered to help Trump win election, say reports,
Guardian (Dec. 10, 2016).
58

Chris Wallace Hosts "Fox News Sunday," Interview with Presid ent-Elect Donald Trump, CQ
Newsmak er Transcripts (Dec. 11, 2016).
59

Chris Wallace Hosts "Fox News Sunday," Interview with President-Elect Donald Trump, CQ
Newsmaker Transcripts (Dec. 11, 2016).

21

