U.S. Department of Justice
Aft:et'fte'.',
Werk Pretiuet // May CeHtaitt Material Preteeteti UHtierFee. R. Griff!.P. 6(e)
1

presidents. A reasonable inference from those statements and the President ' s actions is that the
President believed that an unrecused Attorney General would play a protective role and could
shield the President from the ongoing Russia investigation.

I.

The President Orders McGahn to Deny that the President Tried to Fire the
Special Counsel
Overview

In late January 2018, the media reported that in June 2017 the President had ordered
McGahn to have the Special Counsel fired based on purported conflicts of interest but McGahn
had refused, saying he would quit instead. After the story broke , the President, through his
personal counsel and two aides , sought to have McGahn deny that he had been directed to remove
the Special Counsel. Each time he was approached, McGahn responded that he would not refute
the press accounts because they were accurate in reporting on the President's effort to have the
Special Counsel removed. The President later personally met with McGahn in the Oval Office
with only the Chief of Staff present and tried to get McGahn to say that the President never ordered
him to fire the Special Counsel. McGahn refused and insisted his memory of the President's
direction to remove the Special Counsel was accurate. In that same meeting , the President
challenged McGahn for taking notes of his discussions with the President and asked why he had
told Special Counsel investigators that he had been directed to have the Special Counsel removed.

Evidence
I. The Press Reports that the President Tried to Fire the Special Counsel

On January 25, 2018 , the New York Times reported that in June 2017, the President had
ordered McGahn to have the Department of Justice fire the Special Counsel. 777 According to the
article , "[a]mid the first wave of news media reports that Mr. Mueller was examining a possible
obstruction case , the president began to argue that Mr. Mueller had three conflicts of interest that
disqualified him from overseeing the investigation." 778 The article further reported that "[a]fter
receiving the president's order to fire Mr. Mueller, the White House counsel .. . refused to ask the
Justice Department to dismiss the special counsel , saying he would quit instead." 779 The article
stated that the president "ultimately backed down after the White House counsel threatened to
resign rather than carry out the directive. "780 After the article was published , the President

777 Michael

S. Schmidt & Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When
White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan. 25.2018).
778

Michael S. Schmidt & Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When
White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan . 25.2018).
779 Michael

S. Schmidt & Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When
White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Times (Jan . 25.2018).
780

Michael S. Schmidt & Maggie Haberman, Trump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When
White House Counsel Threatened to Quit, New York Time s (Jan. 25. 2018).

113

