U.S. Department of Justice
AtterAe~rWerk Preettet // Mtty CeRtaiR Material Preteetee UReer Pee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

disclosed at a congressional hearing that the FBI was investigating "the Russian government's
efforts to interfere in the 2016 pre sidential election," including any links or coordination between
the Russian government and the Trump Campaign . In the following days , the Pr esident reached
out to the Director of National Intelligence and the leaders of the Central Intelligence Agency
(CTA) and the National Security Agency (NSA) to ask them what they could do to publicly dispel
the suggestion that the President had any connection to the Russian election-interference effort.
The President also twice called Corney directly, notwithstanding guidance from McGahn to avoid
direct contacts with the Department of Justice. Corney had previously assured the President that
the FBI was not inve stigating him personally , and the President asked Corney to " lift the cloud "
of the Russia investigation by saying that publicly .

The President's termination of Comey. On May 3, 2017 , Corne y testified in a
congressional hearing , but declined to answer questions about whether the President was
personally under investigation.
Within days , the President decided to terminate Corney. The
President insisted that the termination letter , which was written for public releas e, stat e that Corney
had informed the President that he was not under investigation. The day of the firing, the White
House maintained that Corney 's termination resulted from independent recommendations from the
Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General that Corney should be discharged for mishandling
the Hillary Clinton email investigation. But the President had decided to fire Corney before
hearing from th e Department of Justice. The day after firing Corney, the President told Russian
officials that he had "faced great pressure because of Russia, " which had been "taken off' by
Corney's firing. The next day , the President acknowledged in a television interview that he was
going to fire Corney regardless of the Department of Justice's recommendation and that when he
"decided to just do it," he was thinking that "this thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story."
In response to a question about whether he was angry with Corney about the Russia investigation,
the Presid ent said , "As far as I'm concerned , I want that thing to be absolutely done properly ,"
adding that firing Corney "might even lengthen out the investigation."
The appointment of a Special Counsel and efforts to remove him. On May 17, 2017 , the
Acting Attorne y General for the Russia investigation appointed a Special Counsel to conduct the
investigation and related matters. The President reacted to news that a Special Counsel had been
appointed by telling advisors that it was "the end of his presidency" and demanding that Sessions
resign. Sessions submitted his resignation , but the President ultimately did not accept it. The
President told aides that the Special Couns el had conflicts of interest and suggested that the Special
Counsel therefore could not serve. The President ' s advisors told him the asserted conflicts were
meritless and had already been considered by the Department of Justice.
On June 14, 2017 , the media reported that the Special Counsel ' s Office was investigating
whether the Pre sident had obstructed justice. Press reports called this "a major turning point" in
the investigation: while Corney had told the President he was not under investigation , following
Corney's firing, the President now was under investigation . The President reacted to this news
with a series of tweets criticizing the Department of Justice and the Special Counsel 's
investigation. On June 17, 2017 , the President called McGahn at home and directed him to call
the Acting Attorney General and say that the Special Counsel had conflicts of interest and must be
removed. McGahn did not carry out the direction , however, deciding that he would resign rather
than trigger what he regarded as a potential Saturday Night Massacre.

4

