U.S. Department of Justice
AtferHeyWerlt PreattetII MttyCeHtttiH
MttterittlPreteetea UHaerFea. R. Crim.P. 6(e)

The presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump ("Trump Campaign" or "Campaign")
showed interest in WikiLeaks's releases of documents and welcomed their otential to damage
candidate Clinton. Beginning in June 2016,
forecast to
senior Campaign officials that WikiLeaks would release information damaging to candidate
Clinton. WikiLeaks's first release came in July 2016. Around the same time , candidate Trump
announced that he hoped Russia would recover emails described as missing from a private server
used b Clinton when she was Secreta of State he later said that he was s eakin sarcasticall .

WikiLeaks began releasing
Podesta's stolen emails on October 7, 2016, less than one hour after a U.S. media outlet released
video considered damaging to candidate Trump. Section III of this Report details the Office's
investigation into the Russian hacking operations, as well as other efforts by Trump Campaign
supporters to obtain Clinton-related emails.
RUSSIAN CONTACTS WITH THE CAMPAIGN

The social media campaign and the GRU hacking operations coincided with a series of
contacts between Trump Campaign officials and individuals with ties to the Russian government.
The Office investigated whether those contacts reflected or resulted in the Campaign conspiring
or coordinating with Russia in its election-interference activities. Although the investigation
established that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and
worked to secure that outcome , and that the Campaign expected it would benefit electorally from
information stolen and released through Russian efforts , the investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its
election interference activities.
The Russian contacts consisted of business connections, offers of assistance to the
Campaign , invitations for candidate Trump and Putin to meet in person , invitations for Campaign
officials and representatives of the Russian government to meet, and policy positions seeking
improved U.S .-Russian relations. Section IV of this Report details the contacts between Russia
and the Trump Campaign during the campaign and transition periods, the most salient of which
are summarized below in chronological order .
2015. Some of the earliest contacts were made in connection with a Trump Organization
real-estate project in Russia known as Trump Tower Moscow. Candidate Trump signed a Letter
oflntent for Trump Tower Moscow by November 2015, and in January 2016 Trump Organization
executive Michael Cohen emailed and spoke about the project with the office of Russian
government press secretary Dmitry Peskov. The Trump Organization pursued the project through
at least June 2016, including by considering travel to Russia by Cohen and candidate Trump.
Spring 2016. Campaign foreign policy advisor George Papadopoulos made early contact
with Joseph Mifsud , a London-based professor who had connections to Russia and traveled to
Moscow in April 2016. Immediately upon his return to London from that trip , Mifsud told
Papadopoulos that the Russian government had "dirt" on Hillary Clinton in the form of thousands
5

