U.S. Department of Justice
A~orfle}' 'Nork Proelttet II May Cofltaifl Material Proteeteel Ufleler Feel. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

because I think a lot of it is very unfair. I mean , I look at some of them where they go back 12
years. Like Manafort has nothing to do with our campaign. But I feel so--1 tell you, I feel a little
badly about it. They went back 12 years to get things that he did 12 years ago? ... I feel badly
for some people, because they've gone back 12 years to find things about somebody, and I don't
think it's right." 853 In response to a question about whether he was considering a pardon for
Manafort or other individuals involved in the Special Counsel's investigation, the President said,
"Tdon't want to talk about that. No, I don't want to talk about that. ... But look, I do want to see
people treated fairly. That's what it's all about." 854 Hours later , Manafort ' s bail was revoked and
the President tweeted, "Wow, what a tough sentence for Paul Manafort, who has represented
Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole and many other top political people and campaigns. Didn't know
Manafort was the head of the Mob. What about Corney and Crooked Hillary and all the others?
Very unfair!" 855
Immediately following the revocation of Manafort's bail, the President's personal lawyer,
Rudolph Giuliani, gave a series of interviews in which he raised the possibility of a pardon for
Manafort. Giuliani told the New York Daily News that "[w]hen the whole thing is over, things
might get cleaned up with some presidential pardons." 856 Giuliani also said in an interview that,
although the President should not pardon anyone while the Special Counsel's investigation was
ongoing, "when the investigation is concluded, he's kind of on his own, right?" 857 In a CNN
interview two days later , Giuliani said, "T guess I should clarify this once and for all. . . . The
president has issued no pardons in this investigation. The president is not going to issue pardons
in this investigation .... When it's over, hey, he' s the president of the United States. He retains
his pardon power. Nobody is taking that away from him." 858 Giuliani rejected the suggestion that
his and the President ' s comments could signal to defendants that they should not cooperate in a
criminal prosecution because a pardon might follow , saying the comments were "certainly not
intended that way." 859 Giuliani said the comments only acknowledged that an individual involved
in the investigation would not be "excluded from [a pardon] , ifin fact the president and his advisors
. . . come to the conclusion that you have been treated unfairly." 860 Giuliani observed that pardons
were not unusual in political investigations but said, "That doesn't mean they're going to happen

853

Remarks by President Trump in Press Gaggle, White House (June 15, 2018).

854

Remarks by President Trump in Press Gaggle, White House (June 15, 2018).

855

@realDonaldTrump 6/ 15/ 18 (1 :41 p.m. ET) Tweet.

856

Chris Sommerfeldt, Rudy Giuliani says Mueller probe 'might get cleaned up' with 'presidential
pardons' in light of Paul Manafort going to jail, New York Daily News (June 15, 2018) .
857

Sharon LaFraniere, Judge Orders Paul Manafort Jailed Before Trial, Citing New Obstruction
Charges, New York Times (June 15, 2018) (quoting Giuliani).
858

State of the Union with Jake Tapper Transcript, CNN (June 17, 2018); see Karoun Demitjian,
Giuliani suggests Trump may pardon Manafort after Mueller's probe, Washington Post (June 17, 2018).
859

State of the Union with Jake Tapper Transcript, CNN (June 17, 2018).

860

State of the Union with Jake Tapper Transcript, CNN (June 17, 2018).

124

