U.S. Department of Justice
A*et'Rey Werk Pt1eattet// Mey CeHteiHMateriel Pt1eteeteaUHae1·Fed. R. Ct1im.P. 6(e)

yes, describe the source(s) of the information, when you were informed, and the
content of such discussion(s).

II.

Russian Hacking/ Russian Efforts Using Social Med ia / Wikileaks

a. On June 14, 2016, it was publicly reported that computer hackers had penetrated
the computer network of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and that
Russian intelligence was behind the unauthorized access, or hack. Prior to June
14, 2016, were you provided any information about any potential or actual
hacking of the computer systems or email accounts of the DNC, the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC),the Clinton Campaign, Hillary Clinton,
or individuals associated with the Clinton campaign? If yes, describe who provided
this information, when, and the substance of the information.
b. On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks released nearly 20,000 emails sent or received by
Democratic party officials.
i. Prior to the July 22, 2016 release, were you aware from any source that
WikiLeaks, Guccifer 2.0, DCLeaks, or Russians had or potentially had
possession of or planned to release emails or information that could help
your campaign or hurt the Clinton campaign? If yes, describe who you
discussed this issue with, when, and the substance of the discussion(s).
ii. After the release of emails by WikiLeaks on July 22, 2016, were you told
that WikiLeaks possessed or might possess additional information that
could be released during the campaign? If yes, describe who provided this
information, when , and what you were told.
c. Are you aware of any communications during the campaign, directly or indirectly ,
between Roger Stone, Donald Trump, Jr., Paul Manafort, or Rick Gates and (a)
WikiLeaks, (b) Julian Assange, (c) other representatives of WikiLeaks, (d) Guccifer
2.0, (e) representatives of Guccifer 2.0, or (f) representatives of DCLeaks? If yes,
describe who provided you with this information , when you learned of the
communications, and what you know about those communications.
d. On July 27, 2016, you stated at a press conference: "Russia, if you're listening, I
hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will
probably be rewarded mightily by our press."
i. Why did you make that request of Russia, as opposed to any other country,
entity, or individual?
ii. In advance of making that statement, what discussions, if any, did you have
with anyone else about the substance of the statement?
iii. Were you told at any time before or after you made that statement that
Russia was attempting to infiltrate or hack computer systems or email
accounts of Hillary Clinton or her campaign? If yes, describe who provided
this information , when , and what you were told.

C-5

