U.S. Department of Justice
Afl:6rHeyW6rk Pf6ch:1et// Mt1.;·C6f1taiAMaterit1.lPr6teetetl UAeef fetl . R. Crim. P. 6(e)

them to account that they controlled; from there, the copies were moved to GRUcontrolled computers. The GRU stole approximately 300 gigabytes of data from the DNC cloudbased account. 185
2. Intrusions Targeting the Administration of U.S. Elections

In addition to targeting individuals involved in the Clinton Campaign, GRU officers also
targeted individuals and entities involved in the administration of the elections. Victims included
U.S. state and local entities , such as state boards of elections (SBOEs), secretaries of state, and
county governments , as well as individuals who worked for those entities . 186 The GRU also
targeted private technology firms responsible for manufacturing and administering election-related
software and hardware, such as voter registration software and electronic polling stations. 187 The
GRU continued to target these victims through the elections in November 2016. While the
investigation identified evidence that the GRU targeted these individuals and entities , the Office
did not investigate further. The Office did not, for instance , obtain or examine servers or other
relevant items belonging to these victims . The Office understands that the FBI, the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security , and the states have separately investigated that activity.
By at least the summer of 2016 , GRU officers sought access to state and local computer
networks by exploiting known software vulnerabilities on websites of state and local governmental
entities. GRU officers, for example, targeted state and local databases of registered voters using a
technique known as "SQL injection," by which malicious code was sent to the state or local
website in order to run commands (such as exfiltrating the databas e contents). 188 In one instance
in approximately June 2016, the GRU compromised the computer network of the Illinois State
Board of Elections by exploiting a vulnerab ility in the SBOE' s website. The GRU then gained
access to a database containing information on millions of registered Illinois voters , 189 and
extracted data related to thousands of U.S. voters before the malicious activity was identified. 190
GRU officers Investigative Technique

-·
-

scanned state and local websites for
eriod in July 2016 , GRU officers for vulnerabilities on websites of more than

185

Netyksho Indictment,r34; see also SM-2589105-HACK , serial 29 Investigative Technique

186

Netyksho Indictment ,r69.

188

Investigative Technique

50

