U.S. Department of Justice

Attort1e;· Worlc Proelttet// Ma;· CoRtttiRMaterial Proteeteel Ut1elerFeel.R. Crim. P. 6(e)

meeting that McGahn ' s account differed and that McGahn was firm in his views. Shortly after the
story broke , the President's counsel told McGahn's counsel that the President wanted McGahn to
make a statement denying he had been asked to fire the Special Counsel, but McGahn responded
through his counsel that that aspect of the story was accurate and he therefore could not comply
with the President ' s request. The President then directed Sanders to tell McGahn to correct the
story, but McGahn told her he would not do so because the story was accurate in reporting on the
President's order . Consistent with that position, McGahn never issued a corr ection . More than a
week later , the President brought up the issue again with Porter, made comments indicating the
President thought McGahn had leaked the story , and directed Porter to have McGahn create a
record denying that the President had tried to fire the Special Counsel. At that point , the President
said he might "have to get rid of ' McGahn if McGahn did not comply. McGahn again refused and
told Port er, as he had told Sanders and as his counsel had told the President ' s counsel, that the
President had in fact ordered him to have Rosenstein remove the Special Counsel. That evidence
indicates that by the time of the Oval Office meeting the President was aware that McGahn did not
think the story was false and did not want to issue a statement or create a written record denying
facts that McGahn believed to be true. The President nevertheless persisted and asked McGahn to
repudiate facts that McGahn had repeatedly said were accurate.
b.
N exus to an official proceeding. By January 2018 , the Special Counsel 's use of a
grand jury had been further confirmed by the return of several indictments. The President also
was aware that the Special Counsel was investigating obstruction -related events because , among
other reasons, on January 8, 2018 , the Special Counsel's Office provided his counsel with a
detailed list of topics for a possible interview with the President. 830 The President knew that
McGahn had personal knowledge of many of the events the Special Counsel was investigating and
that McGahn had already been interviewed by Special Counsel investigators . And in the Oval
Office meeting , the President indicated he knew that McGahn had told the Special Counsel's
Office about the President 's effort to remove the Special Counsel. The President challenged
McGahn for disclosing that information and for taking notes that he viewed as creating
unnecessary legal exposure. That evidence indicates the President's awareness that the June 17,
2017 events were relevant to the Special Counsel's investigation and any grand jury investigation
that might grow out of it.
To establish a nexus, it would be necessary to show that the President's actions would have
the natural tendency to affect such a proceeding or that they would hinder , delay, or prevent the
communication of information to investigators. Because McGahn had spoken to Special Counsel
investigators befor e January 2018 , th e President could not have been seeking to influence his prior
statements in those interviews . But because McGahn had repeatedly spoken to investigators and
the obstruction inquiry was not compl ete , it was foreseeable that he would be interviewed again
on obstruction -related topics . If the President were focused solely on a press strategy in seeking
to have McGahn refute the New York Times article , a nexus to a proceeding or to further
investigative interviews would not be shown. But the President ' s efforts to have McGahn write a
letter "for our records" approximately ten days after the storie s had come out- well past the typical
830

1/29/ 18 Letter, President's Personal Counsel to Special Counsel's Office, at 1-2 ("In our
conversation of January 8, your office identified the following topics as areas you desired to address with
the President in order to complete your investigation on the subjects of alleged collusion and obstruction of
justice "; listing 16 topics).
119

