U.S . Department of Justice
Attoffley Work PI"oe1:1et
// Mt1:,·CoHtt1iAMt1terit1IPI"oteetetlUHeeJ"Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

cited Corney's handling of the Clinton email investigation, and the President told McCabe he fired
Corney for that reason. But the facts surrounding Corney ' s handling of the Clinton email
investigation were well known to the President at the time he assumed office, and the President
had made it clear to both Corney and the President's senior staff in early 2017 that he wanted
Corney to stay on as director. And Rosenstein articulated his criticism of Corney's handling of the
Clinton investigation after the President had already decided to fire Corney . The President's draft
termination letter also stated that morale in the FBI was at an all-time low and Sanders told the
press after Corney's termination that the White House had heard from "countless" FBI agents who
had lost confidence in Corney. But the evidence does not support those claims. The President told
Corney at their January 27 dinner that "the people of the FBI really like [him]," no evidence
suggests that the President heard otherwise before deciding to terminate Corney, and Sanders
acknowledged to investigators that her comments were not founded on anything.
We also considered why it was important to the President that Corney announce public ly
that he was not under investigatio n. Some evidence indicates that the President believed that the
erroneous perception he was under investigation harmed his ability to manage domestic and
foreign affairs, particularly in dealings with Russia . The President told Corney that the "cloud " of
"this Russia business" was making it difficult to run the country. The President told Sessions and
McGahn that foreign leaders had expressed sympathy to him for being under investigation and that
the perception he was under investigation was hurting his ability to address foreign relations issues .
The President complained to Rogers that "the thing with the Russians [was] messing up" his ability
to get things done with Russia , and told Coats, "I can't do anything with Russia, there's things I'd
like to do with Russia, with trade, with ISIS, they ' re all over me with this." The President also
may have viewed Corney as insubordinate for his failure to make clear in the May 3 testimony that
the President was not under investigation.
Other evidence, however , indicates that the President wanted to protect himself from an
investigation into his campaign. The day after learning about the FBl's interview of Flynn, the
President had a one-on-one dinner with Corney , against the advice of senior aides, and told Corney
he needed Corney's "loyalty." When the President later asked Corney for a second time to make
public that he was not under investigation, he brought up loyalty again , saying "Because I have
been very loyal to you, very loyal, we had that thing, you know." After the President learned of
Sessions's recusal from the Russia investigation , the President was furious and said he wanted an
Attorney General who would protect him the way he perceived Robert Kennedy and Eric Holder
to have protected their presidents. The President also said he wanted to be able to tell his Attorney
General "who to investigate."
In addition , the President had a motive to put the FBI's Russia investigation behind him.
The evidence does not establish that the termination of Corney was designed to cover up a
conspiracy between the Trump Campaign and Russia: As described in Volume I, the evidence
uncovered in the investigation did not establish that the President or those close to him were
involved in the charged Russian computer-hacking or active-measure conspiracies , or that the
President otherwise had an unlawful relationship with any Russian official. But the evidence does
indicate that a thorough FBI investigation would uncover facts about the campaign and the
President personally that the President could have understood to be crimes or that would give rise
to personal and political concerns. Although the President publicly stated during and after the
election that he had no connection to Russia, the Trump Organization, through Michael Cohen,

76

