U.S. Department of Justice
Atton:iey Work Proth1et II Ma)' CoRtaiR Matefial Proteetee UReer Fee. R. Crim. P. 6(e)

Fabrizio, Anthony
(Tony)

Partner at the research and consulting firm Fabrizio, Lee & Associates.
He was a pollster for the Trump Campaign and worked with Paul
Manafort on Ukraine-related polling after the election.

Fishbein, Jason

Attorney who performed worked for Julian Assange and also sent
WikiLeaks a password for an unlaunched website PutinTrump.org on
September 20, 2016.

Flynn, Michael G.
(a/k/a Michael
Flynn Jr.)

Son of Michael T . Flynn, National Security Advisor (Jan . 20, 2017 -Feb.
13,2017).

Flynn, Michael T.

National Security Advisor (Jan . 20, 2017 - Feb . 13, 2017), Director of
the Defense Intelligence Agency (July 2012-Aug.7,
2014), and Trump
Campaign advisor.
He pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about
communications with Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in December 2016.

Foresman, Robert
(Bob)

Investment banker who sought meetings with the Trump Campaign in
spring 2016 to discuss Russian foreign policy, and after the election met
with Michael Flynn.

Futerfas, Alan

Outside counsel for the Trump Organization and subsequently personal
counsel for Donald Trump Jr.

Garten, Alan

General counsel of the Trump Organization.

Gates, Richard
(Rick) III

Deputy campaign manager for Trump Campaign, Trump Inaugural
Committee deputy chairman, and longtime employee of Paul Manafort.
He pleaded guilty to conspiring to defraud the United States and violate
U.S. laws, as well as making false statements to the FBI.

Gerson, Richard
(Rick)

New York hedge fund manager and associate of Jared Kushner. During
the transition period, he worked with Kirill Dmitriev on a proposal for
reconciliation between the United States and Russia.

Gistaro, Edward

Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Intelligence Integration .

Glassner, Michael

Political director of the Trump Campaign who helped introduce George
Papadopoulos to others in the Trump Campaign.

Goldstone, Robert

Publicist for Emin Agalarov who contacted Donald Trump Jr . to arrange
the June 9, 2016 meeting at Trump Tower between Natalia Veselnitskaya
and Trump Campaign officials.

Gordon, Jeffrey
(J.D.)

National security advisor to the Trump Campaign involved in changes to
the Republican party platform and who communicated with Russian
Ambassador Sergey Kislyak at the Republican National Convention.

Gorkov, Sergey

Chairman of Vnesheconombank (VEB) , a Russian state-owned bank ,
who met with Jared Kushner during the transition period.

Graff, Rhona

Senior vice-president and executive assistant to Donald J. Trump at the
Trump Organization.

B-4

