U.S. Department of Justice
Attomey Wofk Pfotittet // Mtt)' CoHtttifl Mtttefittl Proteeteti UHtier Fed. R. Cfiffl. P. 6(e)

c.
Intent. In analyzing the President's intent in his actions towards Cohen as a
potential witness , there is evidence that could support the inference that the President intended to
discourage Cohen from cooperating with the government because Cohen's information would shed
adverse light on the President's campaign-period conduct and statements .
i.
Cohen's false congressional testimony about the Trump Tower Moscow
project was designed to minimize connections between the President and Russia and to help limit
the congressional and DOJ Russia investigations - a goal that was in the President's interest, as
reflected by the President's own statements. During and after the campaign , the President made
repeated statements that he had "no business" in Russia and said that there were "no deals that
could happen in Russia, because we 've stayed away. " As Cohen knew , and as he recalled
communicating to the President during the campaign, Cohen's pursuit of the Trump Tower
Moscow project cast doubt on the accuracy or completeness of these statements.
In connection with his guilty plea, Cohen admitted that he had multiple conversations with
candidate Trump to give him status updates about the Trump Tower Moscow project, that the
conversations continued through at least June 2016, and that he discussed with Trump possible
travel to Russia to pursue the project. The conversations were not off-hand, according to Cohen,
because the project had the potential to be so lucrative. In addition, text messages to and from
Cohen and other records further establish that Cohen's efforts to advance the project did not end
in January 2016 and that in May and June 2016, Cohen was considering the timing for possible
trips to Russia by him and Trump in connection with the project.
The evidence could support an inference that the President was aware of these facts at the
time of Cohen's false statements to Congress. Cohen discussed the project with the President in
early 2017 following media inquiries. Cohen recalled that on September 20, 2017, the day after
he released to the public his opening remarks to Congress-which said the project "was terminated
in January of 2016"-the President 's personal counsel told him the President was pleased with
what Cohen had said about Trump Tower Moscow. And after Cohen 's guilty plea, the President
told reporters that he had ultimately decided not to do the project , which supports the inference
that he remained aware of his own involvement in the project and the period during the Campaign
in which the project was being pursued.
ii.
The President's public remarks following Cohen's guilty plea also suggest
that the President may have been concerned about what Cohen told investigators about the Trump
Tower Moscow project. At the time the President submitted written answers to questions from
this Office about the project and other subjects, the media had reported that Cohen was cooperating
with the government but Cohen had not yet pleaded guilty to making false statements to Congress.
Accordingly, it was not publicly known what information about the project Cohen had provided
to the government. In his written answers, the President did not provide details about the timing
and substance of his discussions with Cohen about the project and gave no indication that he had
decided to no longer pursue the project. Yet after Cohen pleaded guilty, the President publicly
stated that he had personally made the decision to abandon the project. The President then declined
to clarify the seeming discrepancy to our Office or answer additional questions. The content and
timing of the President ' s provision of information about his knowledge and actions regarding the
Trump Tower Moscow project is evidence that the President may have been concerned about the
information that Cohen could provide as a witness.
155

