U.S. Department of Justice
AtterHey Werk PreatJet // MB:)'CeHtaiH Material Preteetea UHaer Fea. R. Crin~•. P. 6(e)

and whether prosecution would serve a substantial federal interest that could not be adequately
served by prosecution elsewhere or through non-criminal alternatives . See Justice Manual § 927 .220.
Section V of the report provides detailed explanations of the Office's charging decisions,
which contain three main components.
First, the Office determined that Russia ' s two principal interference operations in the 2016
U.S. presidential election-the social media campaign and the hacking-and-dumping operationsviolated U.S. criminal law. Many of the individuals and entities involved in the social media
campaign have been charged with participating in a conspiracy to defraud the United States by
undermining through deceptive acts the work of federal agencies charged with regulating foreign
influence in U.S. elections , as well as related counts of identity theft. See United States v. Internet
Research Agency, et al., No . 18-cr-32 (D .D.C.). Separately, Russian intelligence officers who
carried out the hacking into Democratic Party computers and the personal email accounts of
individuals affiliated with the Clinton Campaign conspired to violate, among other federal laws ,
the federal computer-intrusion statute, and the have been so char ed. See United States v.
Ne ksho, et al., No. 18-cr-215 D.D.C ..

Second , while the investigation identified numerous links between individuals with ties to
the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump Campaign, the evidence was
not sufficient to support criminal charges. Among other things, the evidence was not sufficient to
charge any Campaign official as an unregistered agent of the Russian government or other Russian
principal. And our evidence about the June 9, 2016 meeting and WikiLeaks ' s releases of hacked
materials was not sufficient to charge a criminal campaign-finance violation. Further, the evidence
was not sufficient to charge that any member of the Trump Campaign conspired with
representatives of the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 election.
Third, the investigation established that several individuals affiliated with the Trump
Campaign lied to the Office , and to Congress, about their interactions with Russian-affiliated
individuals and related matters. Those lies materially impaired the investigation of Russian
election interference. The Office charged some of those lies as violations of the federal falsestatements statute. Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn pleaded guilty to lying about
his interactions with Russian Ambassador Kislyak during the transition period.
George
Papadopoulos, a foreign policy advisor during the campaign period , pleaded guilty to lying to
investigators about , inter alia, the nature and timing of his interactions with Joseph Mifsud , the
professor who told Papadopoulos that the Russians had dirt on candidate Clinton .in the form of
thousands of emails. Former Trump Organization attorney Michael Cohen leaded uilt to
makin false statements to Con ress about the Trum Moscow ro ·ect.

And in February 2019 , the U.S . District Court for the District of Columbia found that
9

