U.S. Department of Justice
A~6mey 'N6r-lt Prnti1:1et// May CmttaiH Material Pr6teeteti UHtier Feti. R. Criffl. P. 6(e)

though McCabe told the President he had worked "very closely" with Corney and was part of all
the decisions made in the Clinton investigation.
b.
Nexus to a proceeding. The nexus element would be satisfied by evidence showing
that a grand jury proceeding or criminal prosecution arising from an FBI investigation was
objectively foreseeable and actually contemplated by the President when he terminated Corney.
Several facts would be relevant to such a showing. At .the time the President fired Corney,
a grand jury had not begun to hear evidence related to the Russia investigation and no grand jury
subpoenas had been issued. On March 20, 2017, however, Corney had announced that the FBI
was investigating Russia's interference in the election , including "an assessment of whether any
crimes were committed." It was widely known that the FBI, as part of the Russia investigation,
was investigating the hacking of the DNC's computers - a clear criminal offense.
In addition , at the time the President fired Corney, evidence indicates the President knew
that Flynn was still under criminal investigation and could potentially be prosecuted, despite the
President's February 14, 2017 request that Corney "let[] Flynn go." On March 5, 2017, the White
House Counsel's Office was informed that the FBI was asking for transition-period records
relating to Flynn- indicat ing that the FBI was still actively investigating him. The same day, the
President told advisors he wanted to call Dana Boente , then the Acting Attorney General for the
Russia investigation, to find out whether the White House or the President was being investigated.
On March 31, 2017, the President signaled his awareness that Flynn remained in legal jeopardy by
tweeting that "Mike Flynn should ask for immunity" before he agreed to provide testimony to the
FBI or Congress. And in late March or early April, the President asked McFarland to pass a
message to Flynn telling him that the President felt bad for him and that he should stay strong ,
further demonstrating the President's awareness of Flynn's criminal exposure.
c.
Intent. Substantial evidence indicates that the catalyst for the President's decision
to fire Corney was Corney's unwillingness to publicly state that the President was not personally
under investigation, despite the President's repeated requests that Corney make such an
announcement. In the week leading up to Corney's May 3, 2017 Senate Judiciary Committee
testimony, the President told McGahn that it would be the last straw if Corney did not set the record
straight and publicly announce that the President was not under investigation. But during his May
3 testimony , Corney refused to answer questions about whether the President was being
investigated. Corney's refusal angered the President, who criticized Sessions for leaving him
isolated and exposed, saying "You left me on an island. " Two days later, the President told
advisors he had decided to fire Corney and dictated a letter to Stephen Miller that began with a
reference to the fact that the President was not being investigated: "While I greatly appreciate you
informing me that I am not under investigation concerning what I have often stated is a fabricated
story on a Trump-Russia relationship .... " The President later asked Rosenstein to include
"Russia " in his memorandum and to say that Corney had told the President that he was not under
investigation. And the President's final termination letter included a sentence, at the President ' s
insistence and against McGahn ' s advice, stating that Corney had told the President on three
separate occasions that he was not under investigation.
The President's other stated rationales for why he fired Corney are not similarly supported
by the evidence. The termination letter the President and Stephen Miller prepared in Bedminster

75

