U.S. Department of Ju stice

Attome)' Work Procluet// May CoRtB.il'I
MateFial Proteetecl UHEierFecl. R. Crin'!.P. 6(e)

the Magnitsky Act , which impo sed financ ial and tra vel sancti ons on
Ru ssian officials.

Malloch, Theodore
(Ted)

Chief executive officer of Global Fiduciar y Governance and the
Roosevelt Group. He was a Lond on-ba sed associate of Jerome Corsi.

Manafort, Paul Jr.

Trump campaign member (March 2016 - Aug. 2016) and chairman and
chief strategist (May 2016 - Aug. 2016).

Mashburn, John

Trump administration official and former policy director to the Trump
Campaign.

McCabe, Andrew

Actin g director of the FBI (May 20 17 - Aug. 20 17); depu ty director of
the FBI (Feb . 2016-Jan. 2018).

McCord, Mary

Acting Assistant Attorney General (Oct. 2016 - May 2017).

McFarland,
Kathleen (K.T.)

Deputy White House Nationa l Security Advisor (Jan. 2017 - Ma y 20 17).

McGahn , Donald
(Don)

Whit e Hous e Coun sel (Jan. 2017 - Oct. 2018).

Medvedev, Dmitry

Prim e Minister of Ru ss ia.

Melnik, Yuriy

Spokesperson for the Russian Emba ssy in Washington, D.C., who
co nnected with George Pap adopoul os on socia l media.

Mifsud, Joseph

Maltese national and former London-based professor who, immedi ate ly
after returning from Mo scow in April 2016, told George Papadopoulos
that the Russians had "dirt" in the form of thousands of Clinton email s.

Miller, Matt

Trump Campaign staff member who was present at the meeting of the
Nati onal Security and Defe nse Platform Subcommittee in July 20 16.

Miller, Stephen

Sen ior advisor to the Pres ident .

Millian, Sergei

Found er of the Ru ssian American Chamber of Commerce who met with
George Papadop oulos during the campai gn.

Mnuchin, Steven

Secretary of the Treasury.

Harm to Ongoing Matter
Mtiller-Maguhn,
Andrew

Member of hacke r associat ion Chaos Computer Club and assoc iate of
Ju Iian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks.

Nader , George

Advisor to the United Arab Emirates's Crown Prin ce who arrang ed a
meetin g betwe en Kirill Dmitriev and Er ik Pr ince during the trans ition
period.

Netyksho, Viktor

Russian military officer in command of a unit invo lved in Russian hackand-release ope rations to interfe re in the 20 16 U.S . president ial election.

B-7

